This is Jocco podcast number 226 with echo Charles and me, Jocco willing. Good evening, I go. Good evening.
And also joining us tonight is Dave Burke. Good evening Dave. Good evening.
Alright, so almost a year ago. Almost a year ago, I put out a podcast.
Podcasts number 174 and it was about the evaluation system that's used in the Marine Corps.
I talked about the evaluation system that's used in the Navy.
And you might want to go and listen to podcast 174 first before you continue listening to this podcast.
But I wouldn't say it's mandatory.
But in that podcast, I told a story and it was about a guy that worked for me and he came to me because he didn't have the highest grades on the evaluation.
The Navy evaluation system, the grades go from 1 to 5, 5 being the best, 1 being the worst.
And you know, he was like an average guy, you know, 3.3 or 3.6, something like that.
But he thought he should have been better.
And so he came to me, he set up a meeting, you know, which was kind of weird because most people didn't set up meetings to see me.
They were just coming to see me.
But he set up a meeting with the admin department to come see me and, you know, thought he thought he should have been 5.0 and a lot of stuff.
And so as I'm talking to him, I'm kind of thinking, how can I explain to this guy that he's not 5.0.
And so what I ended up doing was reading him some of the bullets that would, some of the bullet points that would make you a 5.0.
How they describe a 5.0 sailor.
Things like going to the document here, professional knowledge, recognized expert sawed out by all for technical knowledge.
Use his knowledge to solve complex technical problems, meet PQS advancement requirements early and with distinction.
Like they think about that.
Recognized expert sawed out by all.
But that means no one is above you in terms of expertise in your field.
And I'm looking at this guy who, like I said, was a strong average.
And as I said that to him, he realized that wasn't him.
And then it was like quality of work needs no supervision.
Always produces exceptional work, no rework required maximizes resources.
Now, think about these terms, always and exceptional.
There's not too many people that that's what you need to be to be in 5.0 category.
Always produce exceptional work.
That's not hey, these 4 out of 5 projects were really good.
We're exceptional even.
No, it's 5 for 5.
You know, who is doing this?
Who does 5 for 5 like that?
Not this guy.
Military bearing in character.
What does it take to be a 5.0 in military bearing in character?
This exemplary personal experience model of conduct on and off duty, leader in physical readiness, exemplifies Navy core values honor, courage and commitment.
Let's just face it when it comes to the word honor.
There's your throne that out there and you're saying, hey, I'm a, I'm the maximum grade in honor.
That's a bold statement.
I'm not too many people are running around making that statement.
And then there's the leadership bullet to be a 5.0 in leadership in the Navy.
You have to, you have to achieve the following inspiring motivator and trainer, subordinates reach highest level of growth and development, superb organizer, great foresight,
develops process improvements and efficiencies.
Leadership achievements dramatically further command mission and vision perseveres through the toughest challenges and inspires all the
and inspires others, exceptional communicator, make subordinates safety conscious, maintain top safety record, constantly improves the personal and professional lives of others.
Come on.
That's that's legit, right?
And you know, so after reading this guy all through this different criteria, he realized he wasn't a 5.0 sailor.
And then on that podcast, 174, I went deep into the Marine Corps evaluation system, which is a superior document.
It's a superior document.
And I was looking at him today, you know, that the Navy one is front and back.
It's two pages.
It's front and back.
The Marine Corps one is six pages.
So three pages, front and back.
More comprehensive.
And what it does, it does a similar thing, which is set like the ultimate standard for the world.
And what it does is, it's a standard for what the highest level qualified Marine would be.
And they have this Christmas tree thing that I talked about on podcast 174 and it's at the highest level.
There's a one that would be like the star on the Christmas tree.
And then as you get into the middle of the categories, there's more more Marines.
Because there's more Marines that are, you know, high average and there's even more that are just average Marines.
But then the funny thing is the bottom of the Christmas tree, it's not a bell curve.
It's not like even on both ends.
At the lowest ranking Marine or the lowest ranked Marine, there's just one of them.
Like loser Marines is a very small category.
But what they describe that one person, that one Marine at the top, they describe that Marine as the eminently qualified Marine.
Very powerful document.
And it does like sets out in no uncertain terms, the quality of behaviors that a Marine has to exemplify in order to be a eminently qualified Marine.
And you know, I actually, I think I originally called you Dave to say,
Did I talk to you about this in a body and ended up not being new here like nine ever talked to you about that?
I was in the brigade tactical operation center and I was in there for whatever.
And I was, you're talking to, it must have been, it was obviously it was another Marine who was sitting there writing, writing e-vails for someone.
It's probably my boss.
Yeah, and he was sitting there doing whatever.
And I started, I just picked up the document, we were talking about whatever.
And I just, immediately, I'd never look at one before.
And as soon as that's all the eminently qualified Marine, I'm putting this together.
You can see the wheels are spinning in my hand like this is legit.
And I talked to you about it.
And the fact of the matter is that in order to become something,
Well, then you have to have clear guidance on what you need to do to become that thing.
And so that's what we covered on that podcast and I closed out by talking about the fact that we as people,
as human beings, don't really have any documentation like that.
It doesn't really exist.
And that was a big thing that I learned as a young seal.
It was the first time that somebody sat me down and read those descriptions to me.
I said, yeah, you know what?
I got some room to grow.
But it wasn't until I saw what the highest level qualification was that I realized I had room to go.
Because you know, you're 22 years old.
And you think you're awesome until you see what awesome actually is like.
So, before I even recorded that podcast,
when I talked to you, David, and I was like, hey,
was this you and you're like, I don't think so.
And I said, well, we're probably going to have to do something with us.
Yeah, because this is going to leave a mark on people.
And then it did.
And it's, I've been got more old.
So, incredible amount of feedback on that podcast.
People have done podcasts about that podcast.
And I told you that we were going to have to do something to,
to assemble some kind of document where people could grade themselves,
to try and become an eminently qualified human being.
And that was over.
That was almost a year ago.
We have been eminant failures at getting it done.
But the weight is over.
And it is now available on Amazon.
It is called the code, the evaluation in the protocols,
which is, and it look, I was going to say it's a weird name for a book.
But it's actually, it's maybe not fully classified as a book.
Maybe it's a handbook.
Because it's not super long.
It's not some grand articulation.
But I did add, we had to start with the code, the evaluations.
And then added the protocols in that allow someone to try and realize what it is like.
To create a vision of what of the human that you want to be.
And on the first podcast, I only talked about evaluations.
But then as we put this together, I started thinking to myself that in order to follow evaluations,
you need objectives to achieve.
You need some kind of rules.
You need some kind of code.
And you know part of this is from the fact that I wrote away the warrior kid
and the warrior kid.
I got all kinds of feedback about the warrior kid code, including that one guy that wrote the,
one of the few things I've read on the podcast, which was, remember the guy that wrote,
hey, I've lost this much weight and I've got a promotion and he turned his life around.
And then at the end he said, and the book I read was,
where the warrior kid.
So, look, and I explained this way of the warrior kid that,
the warrior cultures have codes that they try and live by.
And I did the codes from the Rangers and the Marine Corps and the Seal teams and the Cota Bashito and the Cota Shivery.
And there's a reason that those codes existed.
And the code that I wrote there for the way the warrior kid is a kid's code,
but the book encourages kids to make their own code.
And this book does the same thing.
But this gives you a place to start.
So, we came up with a general categories to evaluate your progress towards this code.
And then the last part is about the protocols.
And again, this was just another thing that kind of came out of the podcast of me talking about protocols.
And I think the first time I talked about, we need a protocol.
People need a protocol was you break up with your girlfriend.
And I went on this thing and I said, here's the protocol.
You order pizza, you get extra cheese and sausage, you take two days of being miserable,
you complain about it to your friends.
And then you get up, you work out, you move on.
You know, like, here's a protocol that you follow.
And a bunch of people were saying, yes, we need a protocol.
And I've also talked about the protocols.
The fact that in America, since we have so many different cultures, all mixed together,
we don't really have a good protocol anymore for deaf.
And so when someone dies, you know, in some places in the world,
I always think of Ireland, that they have a protocol.
Like, you're going to go to this pub, you're going to go to this wake,
you're going to perform this religious service, you're going to do this.
They go through that protocol and then they move on.
And different religions have that, but in America, since we have all this,
everyone kind of consolidated together, we lost some of that.
And so there's some, sometimes people don't know what the protocol is when someone dies.
So there's another situation where something happens, and it would be really good if you could follow a protocol.
So we added some protocols to get people through certain scenarios in life and Dave,
and then Sarah Armstrong as well, who is a friend of mine, a very successful business woman,
a very successful business leader, and a long time, just old school.
Oh, gee, trooper.
Straight up.
And y'all, helping put this together, and we ended up with this book.
So what did I miss Dave?
No, that's it, man.
I mean, when we first did the podcast, I think we had the sense that we were just kind of kind of replicate that.
And as we started to really dig into what this looked like, we realized,
we need to have something else in it.
That's where the protocols really came from is this sort of tells you what you can be,
but we realized as a whole bunch of things you have to do.
And it was pretty cool, look, there's no way it should have taken me this long.
But we did figure out along the way, there was more and you did to go into that.
We needed to write a code, and we needed to figure out what some of those protocols are to help people understand the things they needed to do.
So here we are, 11 months later.
I guess we've been a busy and instead of prioritizing an executing properly, we failed.
So anyways, here we go.
The book, let's go to the book.
The book is called the code, the evaluation, the protocols,
striving to become an eminently qualified human.
So the book is out on publishing company called,
Djokko publishing.
And what's cool about that is look, we turned it.
If this was a normal publishing route to the year, it took us to get it done, added another year.
So the other thing that's cool about it is when you open the front cover, it says first a dish.
Literally it says first a dish.
See, how could you tell?
Yes, so we got first a dish and let's roll into it.
It starts off the first section, it's called the code.
And the whole book is less than 100 pages and not a ton of writing, not needed.
The code, here we go.
The objective, the objective will not be reached without a goal, the goal will not be achieved without a standard.
It will not be met without a mission, the mission cannot be accomplished.
Without an ideal, the ideal will never be realized without a clear path.
The path cannot be followed.
Now that's pretty simple and straightforward, but how many people do you know that are going through life without an objective without a goal without a standard without a mission without an ideal without a path?
Right, they're everywhere, they're everywhere.
So continuing yet, we as human beings often go through life without any of these.
And so we wander, we wander aimlessly without making, moving without making any progress.
Days, months and years pass us by.
Time is wasted, which means life is wasted.
You don't think about that, do you?
That when you waste time, you're wasting life.
And when was it I was talking about the fact that I don't know when I was talking about this.
Maybe it was on the podcast, maybe it was to a client.
But if you take all this time that you wasted and you were able to physically pile it up and see it.
And how you feel sick to your stomach after two or three years to see just this pile of wasted time.
So when we waste time, life is wasted and potential is wasted.
Our own potential squandered, meandering through life instead of becoming who we could be instead of attaining our highest possible manifestation of being.
We simply become whatever we become.
We fall short in so many ways we fall short.
Well that's what happens.
That's what happens.
Happens to all kinds of people.
Happens to me.
Where I fail to do what I should be able to do.
You know what I was thinking about this the other day.
If you got something in your head, if you've got some idea in your head, some thought, some dream, some thing that you want to create.
And you don't execute on that, that is a mortal sin.
Think about that.
You got something in your head, you got some idea, you got you got this thought that wants to come out, but you don't have the discipline to get it out.
And you let this thing die inside your head.
That is a mortal sin.
That's my opinion.
You got to get it out.
Sorry little tangent there.
That's what I think about though.
Just the saying when we wrote this is you simply become whatever we become is such a failure to think that if we don't do that thing you just described.
We just become, well I don't know what we become.
We become whatever.
And I think part of the reason I got, I think I got more feedback on 174 that podcast and more people reach out and ask about it than any of the podcast we did.
Because this, that struck a chord with people, but you were even on it.
You had mentioned the Marine Corps and how does the Marine Corps do this?
People were asking me and I think very shortly after you mentioned we were going to do something about it.
I think people, I mentioned it on the podcast.
People were asking how do I download the Marine Corps, like Google Marine Corps performance evaluation.
But I was getting questions all the time about that podcast because people wanted to know how the Marine Corps did this and making the connection between that and themselves.
Because I think this idea of if you don't become what you're going to become you're going to become whatever.
And there actually is criteria out there, which was the crazy part as we put a little thought into this was how many people, how many times have I just done whatever I did, which sucks so bad to think about that.
Yeah, and this book right here, this little 96 page or whatever it is book, right?
To not put this out is wrong totally.
It's wrong. It's wrong. We had to put it out.
And you know what? It's not easy. It's a pain. There's a bunch of iterations. You're sending me edits.
You know, it's all just a pain, right?
But if you let it sit there and just die, you're wrong. You're committing a sin.
Yeah, and not just for yourself, but for your family, for the people who are at you for God knows how many number of people that could actually benefit from that.
Yeah, from that effort you put into creating something that won't just help you, but it could help everybody.
Yeah, and you know what, I guess what must scare people is they might think, well, you know, what if I do this?
Actually, this is probably more than excuse than anything else of, well, what if I do this and no one really likes it?
And I've said that some people, some people say, I really want to start a podcast.
And then they'll say something like, or I really want to write a book. And they say, but you know, I'm really not sure if anyone would be interested in it or whatever.
And always say, if you're writing it or you're recording it, so that other people will listen to it, you're already starting off on the bad foot.
Because if that's your, look, you need to write it for write it or record it or do whatever, because it wants to come out because you need to get it out there.
And then the world can judge it however the world judges it, which is fine.
And if you get told, hey, yeah, the thing you wrote, it was pretty dumb.
Then you go, okay, lesson learned. Maybe that was a bad idea.
You know, I know some of the ideas that you let out of your head echo Charles to me sometimes.
Sometimes they take some abuse, just or they do.
Well, actually, I mean, in a way that's kind of what I was thinking when you're saying that, I was like, yeah, it's a sin to come out.
But like, well, what if it's like, because in my mind, it has like a non-regid approval process.
So it comes, you know, it comes, expand, which I don't ask you to do very often.
Can I make it for ask you again?
Like I said, non-regid. So you, you know, you come up with an idea, you get reminded of something or, oh, it's my ear.
Whatever. And then you're like, oh, yeah, that'd be cool if I did this.
And then it hits like a first, the first small road blocking, like, okay, that's not a good idea.
Like kind of the realism of the world kind of introduces itself and idea kind of fizzles.
But what if it passes that, you know, in your little mind or whatever, or in my case, my little mind, and it comes.
And it actually like has like, you get positive feedback.
Like maybe you tell your wife about it.
She's like, oh, that sounds like a real thing.
Oh, no, not even there.
Yeah, I think that's like the third layer.
Whatever the second layer is kind of like you kind of think of all the criteria and all the elements of the world that that need to fit in place for this to be a good idea.
It's like, oh, yeah, it's kind of clicking, you know.
You can kind of see the success, you know, on the future kind of in your head.
Then, okay, that's another layer.
Okay, it passes that.
Most of the ideas to be honest don't even pass that.
Yeah.
Well, you tell me about this because you have a bank of ideas, you know, videos that you started for the most part, right?
It started this video and then you say you have a bank of them.
And some of them you go, you go back to them and you say,
I, you know, that was a pretty good idea, but it failed here or sometimes you say,
I'm going to carry through with this idea.
Yeah.
And yeah, exactly.
And there's a lot of those little crates like now you could, I could look at them and be like, okay, that was.
That would be like, okay, that was a good idea for that time, but if I finished this now,
I won't land now.
That would be like, everyone be like, oh, that's kind of old school concept kind of thing.
And yeah, it's a whole spectrum of things.
There's probably more videos and stuff like that than in that bank.
So I guess, I guess maybe you don't need, maybe if you don't produce, like,
you don't have to finish the thing, but you got to at least get it out there into the world.
I don't know. I think you kind of got to finish.
Well, I think you're correct at the end of the day.
And as long as it gets like through those however many layers, yeah, I'm sure we all have different layers of approval in our own head.
But then as long as it passes kind of that one standard layer that it needs to pass, you know,
you know, the one where you're like, you know what?
At the end of the day, you stop thinking about it, but before you stop thinking about it,
you came to the decision, okay, that is, in fact, a good idea.
Maybe not a level of five good idea, but even like a level three, a doable level three, you know,
once it gets to that level, and then you don't do it, then yes, I agree.
Okay, percent, it's a sin.
Interesting. And then that's interesting how you're like, even if it ends up not being a good idea.
And it gets judgment by the world, whatever, like the fact that it's out, like that is the reason.
It's true. That's true for everything. That's true for your own face, really.
Like what? Like you got in the world. Everyone's going to look at what you got, what you have to get to the world,
and they're going to evaluate it. That's just the way it goes. If people don't like your nose, then they don't like your nose.
What? Should you not have been born?
I don't think so.
But nonetheless, you're a fathomically shaking your head over their Dave.
Wait, I think something you said earlier, it really doesn't have any to do with whether or not you produce this for the world to consume it.
If you got an idea in your head, and there's something in it, and look, I know what it feels like,
how the idea is in your head, you have to get that thing out. Whether anybody else, you're brain, your body actually needs it.
That is like exercise. That is a thing that you need to do.
And if you share it with somebody, that really has nothing to do with the part where you need to get that thing out of your head.
You got to squeeze your brain and get something out. And you know what? If it goes to somebody else, that's awesome.
But that's like saying, hey, you know what? I don't need to work out today, or I don't need to rest today.
Or I don't need to eat healthy today. If you got something in your head that's an idea, you have to exercise your brain to get that thing out.
What does what? Where it goes next? You can talk about it all day, but yeah, any time you don't do that,
you said it might be an excuse. They're all excuse us.
Yeah, you know, you said squeezing your brain and then echo repeated it because I've had separate conversations with both of you guys about squeezing your brain.
Right, because the ideas they're in there, but they sometimes you need to squeeze your brain to get them to come out.
You've got to put a little work in. Yeah. So I've got to put a lot of work in.
Yeah, that's the calendar to the common, you know, I was an advocate of this, by the way, or if it's like, hey, if it's not coming to you, then it's just not it's time.
Yeah, you know, you just not ready for it quite yet, you know, kind of thing and my solution to quote writers block.
Yeah, just keep writing. Just write right down. Yep. Oh, you can't figure out that idea.
I'll write around it and you'll figure it out. Yeah.
We'll tension there.
So we get to the code. Here's the code.
One, I will take care of my physical health by exercising, eating properly and getting the rest I need to recover and rebuild.
I will take care of my physical surroundings, keeping them in order.
Does it strike anyone estranged to start with the physical?
Oh, sir. I have a real easy answer for anyone that says, well, you know, your, your brain is paramount.
If your body's not working, your brain isn't.
So number one thing, take care of your physical health too.
I will develop myself mentally by reading, writing, drawing, building, creating and engaging in other activities that sharpen and expand my mind.
Three, I will not waste time. Time is precious.
Four, I will not waste money and I will make prudent financial decisions. Money is hard to earn.
Five, I will set goals that I will strive toward.
Six, I will excel in my job because work is integral to life.
Seven, I will be humble and not allow my ego to negatively impact my decisions.
Eight, I will control my emotions and not allow my emotions to negatively impact my decisions.
Nine, I will put others before myself.
I will help other people and protect those that cannot protect themselves.
I will take care of my friends and family and treat other people with respect.
Ten, I will be ready to protect my friends and family.
My gear will be ready. I will train and prepare to defend myself and others.
Let's go.
And I just kind of, well, I guess I kind of covered here.
Look, it says that this code is not perfectly suited to everyone.
But it is not unaltyable. You can modify it if needed.
Customize it for you and your life.
While it isn't perfect, it's a good place to start.
And while we may never be able to live up to this code, we will be better for having tried.
Now, I don't, I have a hard time conceiving of someone that would look at any of these things in the code and be like,
Yeah, I don't agree with that one.
Is there anything that you can say, well, don't know about that.
Yeah, no. That doesn't mean it has to be exactly like this and your code can be what you wanted to be.
But there's nothing in here you would look at and go, humility doesn't apply to me.
And actually, if you're, if you look at this and you're thinking that, that flag, red flag.
Red flag.
We're actually, we started talking about this part of it. We're on a plane.
I think we're actually maybe headed in Australia. We're sitting together on a plane and we're talking about,
Hey, we need to write the code itself as it is. You know what's talking about, the warrior kid code.
And it came from this idea what you were talking about before, which was if we don't,
if we're out on the path, we just become whatever we become.
But that's not how it has to be.
It doesn't, that is not your, you're not predestined to just become whatever you can actually control in a lot of ways.
What you become and what path you get on, but you need to, you need to know how to do that.
You need to code to tell you how to do that.
This is less about doing the specific thing that we're talking about and more about having a code that defines who you are.
So you are on some path.
Yeah.
Because if you're not on some path and your path is different than your path and different than my path.
But if you're not on a path, you are destined to become whatever.
Yeah.
And that, that is not okay.
And from a decentralized command perspective, look, my troops in the field can make a decision on what they're going to do based on the overall commanders intent.
But we go through life with no, not understanding our own commanders intent of our life.
So if you take this and you need to make decisions about your life, this just gives you the broad framework to say, you know what?
I'm not going to, I should, should I, should I look at another Netflix show right now or should I go and work?
I'm going to, should I do something productive?
Well, I will not waste time.
Time is precious. Okay. I know what decision to make there.
Hey, I want to buy this frivolous, you know, whatever new, what do you buy at Goldchain?
New Goldchain, right? You, you, you could now, you could say, well, you like I really want it and it looks really cool or whatever.
And then you say, you know what?
I will not waste money and I will make prudent financial decisions. Yeah, I don't need the Goldchain.
Like there's a, understanding your own commanders intent and having that as a friend.
Having that as a framework to make your decisions on allows you to make good decisions all the time.
Should I have this donut?
No, sir. Right. I mean, I'm going to take care of my physical health.
Should I, should I drink this whiskey?
Well, that's debatable, but yeah, man, that dig it.
Wait, wait, wait, what was that answer?
I'm just saying, is that kind of like, you know, when you're playing a plane like your instruments?
You're avoiding the question. That goes, Charles.
What are we drinking?
I want to see that connection between me flying and playing with my instruments.
I like to see where those go.
So we'll see where those go.
You see what I'm saying.
I'm saying that. Okay, whiskey, you know,
maybe if you're building cohesiveness within a team,
sure, you know, it could apply, you seem saying, or let's say you're a writer, which I'm not by the way, so this hypothetical.
And you do it to facilitate your creative process.
I would question that.
Yeah.
Very sternly.
Sure.
I would say that that's not going to help you.
I don't know.
And I say you might want to check your code.
Wait, who's the guy who's the writer?
He's like a prolific, like super famous writer who just drink whiskey all the time or something.
Or just have it.
Yeah, I think it was Hemingley.
I don't know. Someone talks.
I don't think that's actually true.
I don't know.
But I think that I like to believe that.
I think that people are going to push back the heart.
People who just brings out with a shotgun.
Let's lay it. Let's lay off the way.
Everyone's path is different.
The people are going to push back the heartess or the people that are drinking.
The reality is, there's actually a code that can ask you can ask yourself, should I be doing this right now?
Yeah.
That's the point.
Understand.
Going on, like I said, what we may never live up to this code, we will be better for having tried.
We will get stronger, faster, smarter.
We will build a better career.
We will be better.
Mother's father's husband's wives, daughters, and sons.
We will be healthier.
Our lives will be better.
And we will make the lives of those around us better.
Pretty straightforward.
Yeah.
And you can look at that code and say, well, you should have said this or you should have said that.
It's like, look at them.
And if you feel like there's something that needs to be added, cool.
Add to your code.
If there's something that you just vehemently disagree with, cool.
Subtract.
But set yourself up.
Set yourself up with a commander's intent.
Set yourself up with a code that you can follow that can guide your decision-making process.
And by the way, will you set it up for yourself?
Why not share it with your family?
So your family can kind of all be moving in the same direction.
You and I've interacted with literally thousands and thousands of people.
Just in the last year.
Thousands of people have interacted.
And not everyone is healthy.
Not everyone's doing the right thing.
Not everyone is on the path.
But it's almost universal that people want to be.
That they want to be.
And this is what allows them to, like, I can actually control that fate just a little bit more.
And a thousand people that they all want their lives to be better.
They all want their families lives to be better.
There's just this crazy idea that there was something that seemed as simple as that.
What was missing was just the recognition of how to start to do that.
It wasn't to try to convince people that they should.
It was more to explain people how they can.
And close in that gap between what they want and what they are.
Was that there was something in the middle was telling them how to do it.
Or how to even think about how to do it.
You're talking about your own commanders intent.
That's a really powerful way to describe what you're doing is like, what is your own commanders intent for yourself?
It was never a question to people want their lives.
Almost everybody wants their lives to be better and healthier.
And the people around that better.
It was not having that understanding your own mind.
What you need to do for yourself to do that.
And you probably hear me talk about the, the German, you know, decentralized command,
talking about Americans, briefs and how we have, you know, 120 slides in a brief.
And then the last slide is the commanders intent.
That's as this is what I really want done.
And the German general saying the, the commanders intent shouldn't be unadendem to all those different slides.
It should replace them.
And so anything you can say about, hey, you know, we could write a book about a book.
How to be healthy, right?
Like, he, here's what you need to do.
Here's your workout, all those things.
You can write all that stuff down.
But the most important thing is hey, you need to make decisions that lean towards good health.
That's, you can replace every exercise book and every self-help book with the underlying personal commanders intent of what you're trying to do.
And it'll solve many, many of your problems.
Yeah, for sure.
And that goes with financial, that goes with your work, all those things.
If you're going to work with the attitude of like,
I'm going to do a good job.
That's, just think of that commanders intent.
I'm going to do a good, I'm going to do a good job at my work.
That's, that's my goal.
You know, I was talking about this on Jockel Live a lot.
I'm not a lot, but I think one or two of the shows this came up where I got to talking about when I got to the seal teams.
One of the things that just changed my life and made everything go so well was this idea.
And the idea was as a 19 year old, I had this idea in my head.
And the idea was, I want to be a good seal.
Just I want to be a good seal. That's what I want to do.
And then every decision that I'm making is, is this going to make me a good seal.
And as soon as I had that as my underlying kind of decision making process,
I started moving in a direction.
And so lucky is very lucky for me because otherwise I got all this energy.
As a young kid, you know, I was a really horrible young kid.
And I was crazy.
I got all kinds of trouble and caused all kinds of trouble.
And the minute I took all that energy and turned it to one thing,
I want to be a good seal.
And it took me some time to figure out what a good seal was.
And I made some errors along the way for sure.
But when I was trying to be a good seal, and then I always said I did something that was wrong.
And it was making me not a good seal.
I could just correct it because I was like, this doesn't seem like this is being a good seal.
So you apply that to all these different elements of your life,
to your physical health, to your mental health, to not procrastinating,
to be, you know, being a good worker, to take care of your family, to be in prepared.
And we wrote this by the way way before, you know, COVID-19, right?
And now all of a sudden people are, man, I wish I was a little bit more prepared.
Yes, yes, you should be prepared.
So to get better, continue along with the book, and to do that, we must strive.
We must strive to be better in the things that matter.
The code sets a standard, the highest possible standard, the highest possible standard reveals and delineates the path we must follow.
And then it gets into what is the path?
The path is how you become what you want to be, who you want to be, and what the world needs you to be.
It is how you reach your potential.
It is the path of discipline that leads to freedom.
The path is a war against weakness, so it leads to strength, it's a war against ignorance,
so it leads to knowledge of war against confusion, so it delivers understanding.
That is the path of life.
And I've got an ask you, because I was talking about the path.
We always talk about the path, echo Charles.
Yes, sir.
In fact, we all close many of the podcasts we talk about, hey, how do we stay on the path?
And of course, people sometimes ask, well, what is that?
What is the path?
Here you go.
That's what this section is for.
And some of those direct quotes talking about the path.
But the path is your life, and it continues on the path is your life, and so the path is different for everyone.
It's your goals, your dreams, what you want to become, the path is yours.
But at the same time, much of the path is the same for everyone.
The path is how you strive to become an eminently qualified human.
And then it gets into, how do I find the path?
What does that look like?
Because I'm sitting here saying, now the path is different for everyone.
Finding the path is in this hard as you think.
Some of it is clearly defined in the code.
The rest of the path comes from simple questions you can ask yourself, what do you care about?
Who do you want to be?
What matters most to you?
What are the most important things in your life?
Who are the most important people in your life?
And what do they need from you?
Answer those questions, then write down what you need to do to achieve them.
Those things that you need to do that you are supposed to do that you know you must do.
Those things are the path.
The path is in your head waiting for you to follow it.
Once again, it's funny that when we talk about the path, even though people like what's the path everyone kind of knows what it is.
Like, like, you know many people have come up to me like, well, been on the path for like two years now.
We never define the path, but they know what the path is.
I've been on the path for, I've been on the path.
You know, when I used to meet people who come up to me and they'd say, I managed really going to meet you.
Like, how long you've been on the path for?
And this is something that had never been defined.
Never said the path was this, this, this and this, but they knew what the path was.
Yeah, it's in their head.
They know.
You were talking about, you said, if you don't do this, it's a mortal sin.
He's the mortal sin.
You said earlier, the path is what the world needs you to be.
That's the mortal sin by not being on the path is that you are failing the world.
The world needs you to be this.
That's the mortal sin of not doing whatever this thing is you need to do.
Whatever that path is not being on the path is that's what the world needs you to be.
I think that's legit.
Next section, how do I stay on the path?
Once you see the path, you must begin to walk down it.
This can be the most difficult part of the journey to break free of the gravitational pull of weakness,
habit, and fear.
The gravitational pull of weakness, habit, and fear.
Those are some strong gravitational pulls.
Yes.
The best way to start is to start.
Don't hesitate, don't wait, don't analyze or plan a research.
Just start now.
Once you begin down the path, you will soon realize it is not an easy path.
The path is fraught with obstacles and distractions, laziness, ego, weakness, and immediate gratification.
We'll try to pull you off the path every day.
You must fight them.
You will even have to fight people who don't want you on the path.
But you can fight.
And you can win.
What is it about people that don't want you on the path?
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
It's that self-reflection thing, where, you know how.
I don't know time and temperature.
There's millions of examples, but you know the kind where you see someone like you just get a couple thousand.
You know what you see, so, and like working hard.
Oh, yeah.
It's like man, you kind of know in the back of your head.
Straight up consciously though, like, man, I should be working harder.
And that kind of, like, demonstrates it for it.
It's like a reminder of how hard you could be working, but you're not.
I don't like that feeling.
So, hey, if you just stopped working hard, I wouldn't have to like do anything hard
and I could actually feel better.
You know, it's like that kind of situation.
I think this happened in Australia at the master.
We would do our workouts.
So, before the master, we're like running driver hersels of the, of the, of the,
PT's, the early morning PT's.
And so, we'd be out there for, for third in the morning.
And people would walk by and it was interesting.
It's interesting.
Because it'd be, you know, it's time, you know, some people come and home from the pubs, right?
It's four o'clock in the morning, right?
We're seeing people.
They got their, they got their drink on.
And so, but it's interesting how some people would say,
some people are just, would just be negative, you know?
Well, you don't want to, what are you doing?
You know, they're, and, and what, you can just feel it coming out of their system.
They just feel guilty and horrible.
Yeah, it's, it's a lot less about you than it's about them.
Those gravitational forces of weakness and fear,
man, they like company.
They like other people.
So, I'm gonna say, and they see you break it free.
Those gravitational forces.
They don't like that.
And it's better for them if you stay down there with them.
Because that forces them to start to reconcile their own weakness and their own fear
and their own gravitational pulls it, putting them in their own direction.
And not to your fight against them seeing you breaking free from that.
And that's gonna be a problem for them.
Yes, wish one of those people are like close to you, which, you know, I guess, you know, I see it, I understand.
But, man, it's kind of even worse when they're close to you.
For them, you seem to be saying, like, what if you're, what if you're drinking
buddy is now like doing something else and he's not drinking it.
He's not drinking it.
Come on, man.
Yeah.
Just coming up a beer with me.
Come on.
Yeah.
What's wrong with you?
That's wrong.
Yeah.
But what happened?
Let's grab some fun.
Come on.
Yeah.
Forget about this path stuff.
He's talking about it.
What are you doing?
Improving yourself.
Yeah.
That used to really, I'm sure you saw this in the Marine Corps,
but, well, maybe you did.
And the SEAL team is, you'd see someone trying to step up and you see other people trying
to hack away at all if you can nasty.
Yeah.
Worst thing ever.
Is it, you know how like when you're close to someone, you kind of have this kind of picture
of them, you know, like this, like this, like this, just idea of who they are, right?
And then, so when they, and then you kind of, in a way you kind of get used to it
or get comfortable with it, like in the relationship and all that.
So when they change, you kind of throw off the relationship a little bit.
Like it's like, oh, my whole image of you is like changing now, I'm uncomfortable.
It feels like that, two sometimes.
You know, like, you know, if you just, especially if they make a quick, like, drastic change.
Yeah.
The idea like, man, I think you're going to be doing more assistance.
Because it makes it feel uncomfortable in that way as well.
You know, like, because it's like that, almost like a, like, a social comfort zone.
You know, where it's like they're different.
It's almost like, oh, the friend that I know, even though you're better technically,
the friend that I've come to know and love your distance is different.
Yeah, yeah, it's not there anymore, you know.
The, the, when Seth Stone was had this idea and his head that he wanted to go to Princeton,
wanted to go undergrad at Princeton.
And so he started, you know, he's an active duty on the SEAL teams and there's no program that sends you to Princeton.
And he says to me, he's like, hey, don't think about trying to go to Princeton.
Like, and I guess there was some program that might have been in the process of being created or whatever,
but it wasn't a real thing yet.
And I said, I said, bro, that's, that's, that'll be awesome, man.
That'll be awesome.
I mean, you'll be a degree from freakin' Princeton, right?
And he comes back to me a few days later and we weren't in task here at Bruser at this time.
And he says, yeah, I'm not sure if I should really go.
And I said, why not, man?
He's like, well, some of the other officers I've talked to said that it's not a good idea.
And it could mess up my timing and my career and stuff.
And I said, bro, that is just absolute jealousy.
And from Princeton, I said, that's a good idea.
And the thing is, Seth had such a big heart.
And he was so loyal, like even when he asked guys, he kind of took it at face value.
They're looking out for me.
And I said, bro, these guys are jealous.
You should absolutely apply.
Any did, any went?
And yeah, obviously.
That's the, that's the thing though, is the beauty about being off the path.
And you get on the path.
There's a lot of people on the path.
So whatever you're losing, whatever those friends are, those friends,
you forget them quickly.
Because there's a lot of people on the path that are going to replace them immediately.
Getting on the path, fear, whatever you're breaking free from.
All those people going to try to pull you down.
Those people fade almost immediately when you get on the path.
Because the satisfaction of being on the path with other people that are on the path.
Dude, that is way more powerful gravitational force than the fear of letting your friends down.
Is it just coming out with me?
Comforting video games or whatever people do today.
I don't know if that's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, and that's not to mention the people that actually come with you.
Even a little bit, you know how I come.
I think Jordan Peterson saying, like, you to find out who your friends are.
See who is happy with your success or something along those lines.
And that's kind of what it does too, where you're older and
He and buddy, some of them will be like, all hating on you.
He's like, oh, he's too good for us.
Now, you know, mad at whatever, but then every once in a while,
like you'll get one be like, hey, wait, what are you doing over here?
Let me try that.
Let me come with you, you know, wherever.
You know, to do you do whatever.
So then that'll differentiate and that'll separate and identify kind of like,
who's your quote unquote real friend as well.
Yeah, and if you see your friends becoming successful and you start feeling that little
twin' shove, you don't, you want to bring them down.
Yeah, you're being that guy, man.
Don't let that happen.
Continue on every moment you are alive as made of choices you get to make.
Little tiny choices that alone mean nothing, but when combined together mean everything.
You have to make the right choices, the hard choices.
You have to deny immediate gratification and push back against weakness.
You must impose unmitigated daily discipline in all things.
That is how you stay on the path.
We must stay on the path if we are to become an eminently qualified human being.
But what does this Emily Qualifying human look like?
What do the attributes of this person?
An enemy qualified human is a person who has achieved mastery in every facet of life.
This person has reached their full potential in every measurable way.
This person lives the code.
But in order for us to live the code, we need to clearly define its parts so that we can evaluate our progress every day.
We need an evaluation system to grade ourselves as we attempt to follow the code.
And it should be hard.
The bar must be set high.
It should be near impossible.
But just in striving, we will become better.
And we must implement discipline.
We must aim to implement unmitigated daily discipline in all things.
It is the only way.
There are countless aspects of life each with its varying level of importance.
But what are the most important?
What aspects of life should be focused?
Where should the pursuit of excellence be concentrated?
It's easy to say that everyone's life is different.
And that is impossible to quantify categories that are the most important.
But that isn't true.
There are some things in life which should be universally placed in the forefront of our efforts as human beings.
To that end, there are the most critical parts of being an eminently qualified human.
And how they should be measured.
This is how we set the standard.
This is the code evaluation.
And so now we get into this evaluation.
And we get into where we tie into, this is where it all stem from this Marine Corps evaluation, which sets the insane and,
basically unachievable goals.
And I would tell you that even someone that got five owes and categories,
you could dig those down a little bit.
I got five owes and categories.
I can tell you I had to meet that standard.
Yeah, not happening.
So the first category is health.
Since our physical bodies are the support mechanisms for our brains, physical fitness, and health are paramount to our existence,
to be able to engage in the critical aspects of life, our bodies need to be able to endure the demands we place on it.
We need to exercise, be well rested, and well nourished, to reach optimal health.
On top of cardiovascular health, a person must be strong, fast, agile, flexible, and mobile.
To be each of those things you have to engage in activities that positively impact all of them.
What we put into our bodies and how we effectively rest our bodies play an equally important role in ensuring we can perform at the highest level.
You can't reach your potential if you aren't healthy.
So this is what you're grading yourself on.
This is the evaluation.
This is how you're grading yourself.
The number one thing that you're grading is health. It starts with physical fitness.
One point one physical fitness.
Being physically fit allows you to perform daily functions from working to playing with your kids to moving things around the house,
all while wall avoiding injury.
Having an effective fitness routine when your young sets the foundation for being fit later in life,
maintaining your physical fitness becomes more critical.
As you get older, this is a basic daily necessity.
And then it talks about one point two, sleep and rest.
Brain and body recovery is rooted in sleep.
A scientific studies on the effects of sleep continue to mount.
It's becoming more and more evident that you must consistently get your required amount of sleep in order to cognitively perform on the highest levels.
Sleeping too little or too much have dramatic, negative effects on your body and ability to perform.
Established the amount of sleep you need and prioritized accordingly.
Yeah.
I've had to point people back to the discipline and go to freedom field manual.
Wouldn't it look like what time you wake you up?
What time do you go to bed?
Well, it's wrong with you. You're killing yourself.
You're so unhealthy.
No.
Some people need different amounts of sleep.
And if you need sleep, you need to get sleep.
Yeah.
And the next part of health is diet and nutrition.
There's no part of you.
Your diet does not affect the fuel for your body.
Determines how you look, feel and function.
Determines how it looks, feels and functions.
Knowledge and implementation of what constitutes a healthy diet is imperative.
And we'll make the difference between maximum performance and substandard performance.
So there you have it.
That's right for it.
That right there is health.
The next thing we go into is called personal development.
Personal development.
Much like our bodies we need to nourish and grow our much like how we need to nourish and grow.
Our bodies, our brains and personal behaviors need the same attention.
Our brains need activities like reading, writing, building, creative pursuits and other actions that promote intellectual health.
We also need to train ourselves to improve how we deal with the challenges in our personal world,
making the best use of our limited time and money and setting goals all contribute to personal development.
So this is one of those things we're, you know,
if you don't, if you're not grading and that's the point of this evaluation, if you don't,
great.
If someone doesn't show you, like when I was a young seal and I thought I was doing a good job with tactics,
and then they show me what it says to be a tactical 5.0, I'm not even close.
So how often do we think about from a personal development perspective that we're actually doing an outstanding job?
We don't even, most people don't even know what that even remotely looks like.
So then we talk about intellectual fitness.
While carried in the chasties of the body, the mind is supreme, it is us.
It needs to be protected nourished and trained.
You exercise the brain and make it more capable by reading, writing, studying and learning new things.
You need to develop in areas you don't always, that don't always fit into your normal routine.
Even if your job or responsibilities don't demand it, cultivate something artistic, like music, writing or singing.
Do things you're not good at and try activities that make you uncomfortable.
They promote creativity and intellectual growth.
Remember how just psycho we go whenever you and I talk about the fact, the creative aspect of combat and war and how much the Marine Corps talks about this creative nature.
Yeah.
Creative nature needs to be developed.
The idea of intellectual fitness is being a thing that you have to force yourself to do things you're not good at to exercise your own brain.
It's easy to think about that in the physical system.
I want to get better at something I'll do this physical exercise.
I will run or I will lift weights or whatever I'll stretch.
I don't have good flexibility.
I can fix that by stretching.
The intellectual piece is especially at work.
If people are in the grinder and the routine and they just get stuck in this day to day thing of what they're doing is your brain needs you to force it to do things it's not good at to get better.
And it's not that you become a master pianist or a brilliant musician.
It's that your brain gets better and smarter and stronger and you can do so many other things better by doing that.
The intellectual fitness piece is how your brain grows which it has to everyday.
I can never remember being told to think about how you're growing your brain everyday.
I did not have that grown up.
I know what he told me that.
I didn't think about that and it never occurred to me that this is something that I everyday need to think about how I'm doing.
It gives you and I would say people are now kind of discovering like they'll tell you hey when you're over 60 you should try and learn an instrument or try and learn a new language because it makes your brain is like your body needs work.
He's exercise and not to mention just how look the mind is the ultimate weapon.
I was just telling my son that the other day you know because he all he wants to do is what jack steal.
Right train like that's it.
So hey man that's awesome.
I get it but you better sharpen that other's down on the tool you got to because that's the ultimate weapon.
Yeah.
And you can feel it.
I can't.
Like I can feel it when I'm on point when I'm doing a bunch of work with a bunch of clients where I'm digging deep with you know writing something or going through.
You know when I'm preparing for a podcast I can feel the foundation getting stronger.
You know I feel my own mental foundation getting stronger because I have better understanding of connecting the dots and pulling the thread and figuring out where things connect.
And that's just powerful.
You get a lot of exercise so to speak.
I have an intern of your brain just by talking to so many people.
Oh, I mean you know like you ever I mean you've never been in a situation where you didn't talk to anyone for like a week.
Not anyone at all but like you've been pretty whether be standing in your house or whatever.
Maybe just me but I don't let's say I don't have many social interactions.
We'll say for like a little extended period of time.
When you jump back into social situations you feel kind of awkward you know.
Same thing is if like you stopped lifting for a while then you try to get underneath that weight again and you're like, oh this is a little heavier than I remember it being you know.
Yeah you know when Jordan Peterson kind of hit the scene.
And people with people who talk to me about Jordan and they take man he gives these incredible answers right.
And and I'd be like yeah definitely and then I'd take go watch his lecture from 1987 when he's a professor at Harvard.
He's given that answer that you know someone asks him, whoa, whatever whatever they're going to ask him.
He's he's actually given that answer and thought through it at a deep level that he's going to give you be able to give that answer and it's going to sound amazing because he's prepared that answer at that moment for 30 years.
So but here's the thing.
That having that base is what allows you to riff when the time comes it allows you to make that little adjustment to that individual person.
So the more training you get the more exercise you get the better you're going to be.
You know you also see it with like like politicians.
If you see a politician and someone catches them with the way they don't really haven't fought through that answer before depending on their intellectual fitness.
Sometimes they can figure out a way around it but sometimes they're just looking dumb. You know what I'm saying? Because they're just they just don't know how to do it.
And you can see a good a good politician.
They get asked something that catches them off guard and they're able to handle it in a good positive way.
You know like you like oh.
You know what that's that's you know when you make that you have their answer they have a way of doing it they have a way of contemplating what's going on at real time because they're used to doing it.
And you know you know Dave this is kind of our life not political side but working with companies and going in and having people ask us questions and you know we're going to score 94% I've heard that question or very close similar question that and then 6% it's like oh this person has a unique problem.
That's just their problem.
How do we apply our leadership principles to that problem that they're having and the more the better the stronger your foundation is the easier it is to say oh yeah here's what you're experiencing I get it I understand what you're trying to say and here's a way to approach that.
Intellectual fitness.
And there's no more valuable resource in life than time and it's limited in quantity no one knows how much time they have so you have to maximize all of it.
And yet people waste their most precious resource every day how well you manage your time determines how productive you are. Next one financial management like time money is precious resource. So avoid wasting money on anything that is a productive track what you spent money on what you saved and what you invested if you're disciplined with your money you'll have more of it to spend on things you want and things you need.
This is the criticism that says yeah and it seems like you're awfully focused on money here.
Right is there criticism that's going to come my way that's going to be leveled at me.
That you should be disciplined with your money.
Yeah.
I think the reason that this leaves a mark where something that I think people can do pay attention to is because when I people that I've known throughout my entire life.
When you look at what problems they have like what is causing their angst what is causing the problems in their life.
There's a large percentage of those problems that are financial problems for sure.
And if you don't think about it, you know if you're going to talk to if you're going to have a code and your 18 years old look you're not going to start thinking to many questions say that you're not.
Many people don't start thinking about money when they're 18 they don't start thinking about their finance when you know what their finance is when you're 20 years old.
So I have enough money for Saturday night cool made it.
You know and then that goes through the weekend and then they try and scrape together a little bit more money and then the same question do I have enough money for Saturday night.
Cool made it and the only time they adjust is if they didn't have enough money for Saturday night and then they go, got to need to work some more hours.
Say work a little bit more hours so they have enough money for Saturday night not the way to go through life.
And most people that get on the path they're not jumping on the path so they can end up with a Ferrari like that's not the path that they're on this idea of financial management and recognizing that this is a practice resource that everybody needs to fulfill whatever is you want.
If you want to take music lessons you want to put your kids through piano that that's going to cost a little bit of money and this idea of financial management is really the recognition that whether you want to admit it or not or whether you like it or not.
This is a resource that is hard to come by it's hard to come by and it's going to influence your life.
That doesn't say your goal should be to be rich that's not what this is and that's not even really the point but this is a resource that is going to impact your life for your entire life for you for the people around you.
And what it means is that you need to acknowledge that you need to make decisions that impact that so you can have as much of that resources possible to do the most good without resource when it matters.
And there are very few things in the world that you can do where money does not influence it for better for worse and you just when you were talking about what do people think about when they're 20 you're talking to every 20 year old that's out there right now.
I mean we can all relate to that idea of where am I thinking how far down the order of my thinking that is not a path that is not the way to go through life.
This is a resource that people need to live the life they want doesn't mean you have to be rich doesn't mean you have to drive fast cars and have a nice house it means you have to have this resource to help the people around you do the things that they need and if you don't think about that you're not going to have it when you need it.
Yeah if you don't put the goal in place you're going to always be looking to Saturday night or whatever that you know equivalent is in your life which is do I have enough money to pay the rent do you know when you're do I have enough money to feed the kids do I have enough money for the car payment whenever those things are.
Yeah you don't have to end up there no you don't and if there's a massive disruption like what we're going through right now if you're on the path you can deal with that better.
You can respond to that better you can take care of your family better.
This is about recognizing that this resource impact your life and it will forever.
Yeah I guess anybody that would say you will money is not important.
It's tough to convince me of that because if even if you're saying hey you know what I'm going to live in a van down by the river.
You need you to gas for the van and that means you're going to have to do something to get money for gas for the van you know that's the way it is.
You can even and part of financial management is setting your expenditures in a point where you can handle it you know like.
I forget whatever podcast we talked about financial management I'm like oh yeah here's what you do.
Spend less than you make. Start with that spend less than you make cool that's going to put you in a great place in life. You know you don't need the brand new car off a lot.
You don't need that echo Charles.
I understand.
Check.
Well the living in the van thing too which I'm not saying no one thinks about this or whatever but like you need my okay so you.
Even your safety right you know like medical or whatever like if you break your leg or get some infection or something living in the van.
Yeah bro you can be in bed shape compared to you know if you're kind of on the path there and you're like okay medical no problem I got insurance or I can pay for it or whatever you know how to sort yourself out in that way but yeah if you're like oh money doesn't mean anything so I make zero money I'm going to live off the land or whatever yeah but.
Unless you're like yeah whatever. If you're trained in medical stuff you can be jammed up you get an infection or something like this.
Yeah what about also what about when you can't take care of your family.
Because that's a whole other ball game.
You know in all of a sudden you go hey you know what if I'm if I'm sick or whatever I'll just suck it up and but what if your kids get sick.
Like then what are we going to do.
That's why financial management is important and if you're not paying attention to it if you don't have a clearly defined goal if you don't have an underlying.
You're going to line commanders intent of how you're going to live financially you're going to be caught in a hamster wheel that never ends of chasing.
Chasing that dime you know.
The people that pay more here's what here's what here's the weird dichotomy.
If I'm a person that doesn't doesn't care about money and I'm like you know money's not important to me I'm going to be chasing that dollar for the rest of my life.
Versus someone that says you know what money is important I'm going to figure out how to take it and keep it and grow it.
That person will end up not having concerned about money not having any concerns about money.
Whereas the person that doesn't care about money doesn't think it's a big deal and doesn't want to worry about it they're going to be worrying about it forever.
So there you go.
It's kind of like that one where people people someone someone has to say I don't really want to fight so why should I learn G. Jitsu and I said if you don't want to fight you are the number one person that you're learning G. Jitsu so if you're out there thinking I don't really care about money you're the number one person that should care about money.
Yeah you can set yourself up for freedom or you can be a slave.
Next personal goals. You have to know your objectives you have to know what your objectives are to put meaning around the things you are doing set physical goals like running a 5k or deadlifting 8000 pounds.
Set intellectual goals like learning a language or pursuing a degree set goals for diet sleep time money management.
Evaluate every day if your goals need to change and if you move closer to them track major milestones for school work competitions setting and achieving goals is a critical human pursuit make your goals hard to achieve when you achieve them they will have more meaning.
Pretty straightforward.
Next up this is the next section that you are grading yourself in section three professional development being good at your job allows you
to provide financially for you and your family set an example for your children and achieve long-term objectives. Your professional success is key to your personal success performance.
Three point one performance being secure in your position at work provides stability minimize the risk of losing your job and the means to support yourself your family by performing well.
Get better at your job each day and seek take.
Seek and take feedback from others when there is an opportunity find ways to actively support others and improve your team. Okay, so now we'll go down the same path.
The path of hey man, I'm welcome through life just to work.
That's not my thing. I'm not going to focus on work. Okay.
So that's what you're going to do. You're not going to focus on work. So for the rest of your 40 years of working as a human from 20 to 60 you're not going to focus on that thing.
Guess what you're not going to progress. You're always going to be at the bottom of the chain of command. You're going to have little to no control over your fate.
And I was just talking about that with a client right before we came here.
The in the Navy, I couldn't give anyone a pay raise. I mean, I could get them promoted. It takes two or three years. Whatever.
I can't give someone a pay raise. The way you pay people is you give them control over their destiny. So when you work hard.
You end up with control over your destiny. I'll tell you what, man. I wasn't the military for 20 years.
I would say 15 of those years.
I had almost complete unmedicated control over my own destiny.
As crazy as that sounds. Like as crazy as that sounds 15 years. I'm talking day by the, you know, maybe one, maybe one hour of a day.
You know, last week I had a guy that was like, you need to get this done. I was like, hey, Roger that. I didn't have control over my own destiny.
The other 90% of the time I was I had things set up in a way that I can control my own destiny.
When I remember, I was one of the few kids growing up in my circle of friends at school that wanted to join the military. Most people didn't. And the common thing was, I'm, I don't want people to tell me what to do. You know, I don't want to be, you know, getting yelled at by people or, you know, outrank me and whatever that idea was of what the military was like.
And I didn't really know what the military was like. I was just kind of enamored by it and I actually sort of thought there would be some yelling involved. And I've told what to do.
There aren't a lot of jobs in the world where you don't work for somebody. And what you described is even in the military, which people think is like the most rigid hierarchy.
Bro, the amount of autonomy that I had when I was the squadron commander of the world's only F-35 squadron in the world.
I could do almost anything. I could do almost anything. Yes, and I've a boss of course. And I've met you ahead of me. Of course.
Just like in almost every other job in the world, I answered to somebody. But the, the tool that gave me all that autonomy was years and years and years of years of actually doing my job well.
And the freedom that being good at your work gives you down the road. You could be in the military at any wreck. If you're really good at your job, you don't get, you get freedom, you get autonomy. You get a little control over your life.
And everybody wants that. When we get asked, we get us all the time. People talk about problems that have it work. And the two simplest ways to get through what the problems are.
One is typically connected to relationships. How does your relationship with this person, whatever problem you're having?
And the other one is how good are you at your job? Because most people that are really good at their job don't have a lot of problems at work.
They just don't. And it's the ones that have, I have friction with my boss or my leadership or, and they talk about all these problems.
Oftentimes, the thing they can do to get, make, make, make most of those problems go away is just do a better job.
Because if you're in a better job, your boss is going to stop bugging you.
Your peers are going to stop bugging you. You're supporting you to stop giving you a hard time.
And so this idea of performance, that's the best thing you could do, whether you're working for the man or for the sergeant.
That gives you the most amount of freedom and self control over your life is just be good at work.
When I was writing leadership strategy in tactics, that was a very in depth review of my life and my career.
And a lot of ways. And that's one of the things that's I dug down and said,
Why was I, what did I do to build trust? What did I do to get autonomy? What did I do to get ownership?
What did I do to get all those things? And it was, you know, I'm sitting there squeezing my brain one night.
I was like, I didn't actually know exactly what I did. I worked for the hard and did a good job.
And when you work really hard to do a good job, people start, and actually working really hard is just what I had to do to do a good job.
If you can just do a good job, you don't even have to work hard.
I had to work a little harder, but that idea of performance.
And again, if there's someone that's sitting here listening going, well, you know, I don't like what I do.
Cool. Do awesome.
Awesome.
And other opportunities will open up, including saying, Hey boss, I really appreciate it working here.
I think I'm going to move on to a different career. Can I get a letter of recommendation?
Absolutely.
Don't worry. Thank you. Boom. So the other view point would say, if you're not into it, you don't want to invest a bunch of time into it.
Okay. What are you going to do then? What are you going to do?
Yeah. This is your job. This is your vocation. Go and do it. Do it well.
And you know what? Sometimes, sometimes it actually involves just doing what you're told.
Sometimes when you're the new guy, you're brand new. And even if it doesn't quite make sense,
maybe you don't want to do it. I don't want to, like, sometimes just do what you're told in the beginning.
Build a little credibility. Don't push back and everything.
And if that just means just following orders at the beginning, which is what all brand new people do.
They just kind of following orders.
Real pay do.
You start to figure things out a little bit.
Understand what your boss is intent was and really not just giving orders.
He's actually had a larger purpose, but you fall through that get some credibility.
You get a more autonomy. And yet, does that mean sometimes you're just going to get on board and just do whatever you're asked to do to make things happen?
Yes. It does.
But that doesn't last forever. That news it doesn't even last a very long time.
It actually is a really short period of time. And the best way to get to that is just just be the guy that's outperforming everybody else.
Keep your mouth shut and do good work. And very quickly, very quickly, you find yourself with the freedom that autonomy.
And you get to be in charge sometimes.
You get to make your own decisions with other folks.
So this idea of being good at your job, it affects every part of your life.
Yeah.
And once again, if you've got the miserable job that you hate, the best thing you can do is be awesome at it.
Invest, do awesome at it because you'll get promoted out of that job or you'll get openings to another thing in the world that will allow you to do something that you like, which speaking of which next section.
Advancement of qualifications, figure out what is required to promote or advance and take deliberate steps to do so determine what certifications or qualifications are required to outperform your competition.
Then earn them.
Find a meaning in your job. If your job doesn't have meaning, designing an extra strategy to move to one that does.
A lot of our time will be spent at work, make it matter.
And hey, this idea of finding out what it takes to promote.
There were some guys in the teams that would go through that little book and go, well, I could just call it, I'll get this call.
Okay, I'm ready for, that's not what I'm talking about.
No, no, no, no.
And I want to talk about, but that is part of performance.
So do it with the right context.
Yeah.
No, I mean, that's, yeah, I think you've talked about this a bunch and I think in the Navy and the Marine Corps, there's a saying, I think it's the same phrase that we call them ticket punchers.
I think it's the same. It might be like, you know, check in the block or whatever. There's some link, link it out there.
That is not what this is. This isn't on my ticket puncher.
But there is a little bit like, hey, do I want some control?
What do I need to do to get a little bit around here? Well, you do this for a while.
And then there's a certification that you can be kind of a master craftsman in your trade or you get to get a certification where you get to be an instructor in this capability.
Yeah, I'd like to know what that is. You've learned about it. You get better at it.
Those are two very different things.
And you're doing it to make yourself better and make your team around you better and make your world better.
It's a lot different than I'm going to, you know, trick the system and then we're just getting my ticket punchers succeed until they don't.
And when they don't, it's usually pretty bad.
When you get kind of high-lighting revealed, it's a ticket puncher. Things don't usually end well for those people.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting to call to me that just kind of showed up on these last two is if you don't want to care about money, you should care about money.
If you don't want to care about your job, you should care about your job.
The exit comes from discipline.
Yeah.
The freedom comes from discipline.
Period.
Next section, 4.0 character and leadership.
Who we are as a person is perhaps the most defining quality in our life.
Our character impacts those around us and the world we live in.
And we are incomplete control of it.
Learning humility, managing our egos and leading and mentoring people in our world are ways we can do.
We can't our ways we can choose to develop our character.
Remember, you don't need to be in charge of anyone or anything to lead.
Everyone has the ability and the obligation to lead.
4.1 humility.
This is the most important quality in a leader.
Egos, the biggest killer in combat business in life.
Be honest in yourself assessment of your own ego and control it.
If your ego gets out of control, you will lose.
Watch out for your ego.
Emotional control.
Stifle your emotions.
Emotion, everyone is emotional.
But we, but not everyone can control their emotions.
We are not effective when we are emotional.
We don't have productive conversations, send good emails or make smart decisions when we lose control of our emotions.
Know your red flags and learn to identify when emotions start to take over children's struggle controlling their emotions.
Emily qualified humans do not.
Yeah, that's who gets upset.
That's who gets angry.
Kids, little children.
Kids.
So if you're not a little child, get control of your emotions.
How many people echoed Charles have pushed back on spifle your emotion?
Right?
I've heard it all.
I've heard it.
If you do that, that's what drives mental health.
No, look, I'm not saying don't have any emotions.
Control, no.
Yeah.
How about you act like an adult?
Yeah, there's, because well, when we did analyze that or whatever, if you call it an analysis,
it's not that you're like bottling them up.
You're dealing with them in a specific processing or general way.
Yeah, so you, you know, there's a difference between how you feel and how you behave.
So if you just relate like however I feel, I'm going to behave.
That's like an emotional behavior, emotional decision, emotional whatever.
But if you run it through like a little filter, whatever that filter is,
and don't behave emotionally, it'll help develop your capability to deal with it.
But to control your emotion.
Yeah.
And it's good character.
You know, that's, that's the section is character, right?
It's character and leadership.
Be humble.
Keep control of your emotions.
And then the other part of character is mentoring and charity.
So part of your character is to the book you're helping others, having outlets to provide support
to those that need it in a way that is productive for them.
Set your best example, mentor someone, help set goals for friends and family members.
Take care of other people.
I mean, the thing that's so important about what you said at the beginning is that this kind of defines who we are.
But you're 100% control over this.
You're in control over all of this.
It doesn't say don't have emotions.
But you should never let your emotions control you.
You should be in control of how you react to your emotions.
And the difference is, and we get this all the time is, hey, you had this issue at work,
and I tried to work it out with this person, and I lost my temper.
My headnut conversation go, how'd that work out?
The problem gets solved?
No, it didn't.
Because I could not, I can't tell them don't feel angry.
I can't say that don't feel angry.
But as you find yourself feeling angry, you can actually control how you respond to that anger.
And it could be you just deal with it, put in this place, and continue the conversation.
It could be that you find a different time to have the conversation.
But the anger is not in charge of you.
You are in control of this.
I have yet to had an interaction with someone with a loss of their temper,
loss control of their emotions, loss control of how they were feeling, and the outcome was good.
Yeah.
I'm thinking about how in my life, like, at some point realizing that this was not a good thing.
And I was definitely watching leaders that I had lose their temper,
and then just getting to a point where, you know, it's a great, you're not going to face me.
Like, I'm not going to, you're not going to see that I'm getting frustrated.
Right?
It's going to be okay.
I'm listening.
And if I do show you some frustration, it's going to be actively trying to show you that I'm frustrating.
Because I'm trying to send you the message that like, hey, what you're saying right now,
it doesn't make sense.
And you don't see that.
And it's so insensible that I'm actually going to show you
some frustration.
So you go, oh, jocquat's getting frustrated, which I don't see very often.
And now I'm feeling it.
But yeah, it's, uh, I feel like you're stalking of you, not me.
I feel the same way.
I actually know, I don't really get, I don't think I don't know if you.
I don't think you've ever done anything.
That's frustrated me.
Actually, can you think of anything?
Oh, yeah, couple, but what?
Uh, no, they're all essentially jokes.
Okay.
Just like your, yeah, they're just jokes.
Like, you know, even sometimes you'll, you'll be like, um,
you'll take extreme ownership, but it'll be real obvious that you're blaming me.
Yeah.
You know, like, well, maybe I actually, you know what?
That's my fault.
I should be pressing record on that thing.
You know, it's up to me.
You know, like that can stuff, but no, no.
Yeah, those are just fun.
Yeah, yeah, no.
Those are just, uh, good times.
Yeah, because it's going to be hard to frustrate me.
Yeah.
It's going to be hard to frustrate me, even, even on the mats of justice.
Uh, you know, fatigue is fatigue in a motion kind of, yeah.
It's a feeling.
Yeah.
And you can act, type it, right?
You can allow people to see that.
I don't even like to do that.
Yeah, no.
Actually, I learned that was a major lesson I learned from you, which was straight up directly.
Like, don't, I mean, I guess you could oversimplify it and put, like, don't show weakness or whatever,
but it was like, don't act tired, even if you are tired.
Like, don't act tired.
Because, you know, that's a common thing, especially in the beginning where you're like,
you have a hard round or hard three rounds or whatever, and then I've hear like,
oh, and you flop on the, on the mat or whatever, you know, and it's like, oh,
you're acting tired right now.
No, no, it's part of the thing and, you know, what are even when you come home from work.
Same thing, you know, you flop on the couch.
What a long day, kind of thing, right, you don't have to do that, you know?
And there's no real benefit in doing that, like, overall.
Maybe some short term benefit, maybe some feelings or something, but anyway,
so when you just say, yeah, I learned that.
And it's weird how it kind of, your mind and your behavior kind of play off each other, you know?
Because if, yeah, the more and more I would not, or I would avoid actively avoid acting tired,
the last time.
The last time I feel, yeah, it's weird.
But yeah, that's a big deal. Yeah, and I always have inst still kind of do have,
I mean, I'm starting to figure it out.
I used to think, prejudices never get tired.
It's never does it.
But now I'm trying to figure out, I'm sure you do.
You just deal with it in certain ways to kind of mask it, you know, like, just way better than what I'm used to.
This is part of the ongoing debate.
And it's whether Jako is actually a person.
You know, human emotions.
You were talking about, you know, when you're making that connection or that light bulb going on,
on a lot of when we wrote this was you're just trying to help people make the connection sooner in life
and have some sort of template to get that light bulb to go on.
That feeling of losing emotion.
I remember at some point early in my military career, it was kind of a cool thing for senior guys to fly.
It was like a thing.
And you know, like senior listeners, senior officers to like children or juniors,
and it was almost like a technique, like a leadership style.
And I remember thinking every time I saw, every time I saw in the back of my mind,
I'm thinking how dumb that person looked and how weak that person looked.
But what for me, what the connection was is that I didn't make the connection at how I looked when I did it.
Because I would think when I did that, I looked cool.
I looked like a badass.
And at some point I started to realize like that feeling that I have about what other people look like.
That's what other people are seeing in me.
And it's not cool when I do it.
I don't do it the right way.
It's still the same sign of weakness that I was, it was very easy for me to see it in other people.
And really hard for me to see it myself.
When I made that connection, that's what made it much easier for me to just stop acting like that.
And I was never really one of those guys, but earlier in my career,
I almost kind of like, I copy the example that I was seeing.
But it always bothered me because it never made sense to me.
And when I made the connection of, I look as stupid as everybody else that I think looks dumb doing this to other people.
And that's when I made the connection.
And just kind of just stop doing it's pretty rare to really, very rare to fly up the handle.
But even pretty early, it's just show a bunch of emotion because what most of the time when people brought me problems.
What they need to me, tell them, okay, hey, there's no factor we can solve this.
This is a solve problem.
I had pretty much like let's work through the solution.
And they were happier and more satisfied than if I got emotional with them, I got a round up and they walked out and nothing up fixed.
Yeah, I think I'm going back to a Delta Charlie who I talked about leadership strategy and tactics.
My second two commander group of place Skyrim card.
That guy was so unflappable that I think I remember this time watching him get chewed out by someone.
Yeah.
You know, like a like a fleet officer, you know, and he was a lieutenant.
He's a prior-and-listened senior chief, but you know, a lieutenant and some whatever.
Whatever we did or the both of them did, something happened.
And you know, he like, you know, Roger that sir.
And I just thought to myself, wow.
And then he turned around and just the way he handled it, I'm like man, that's legit.
And I remember another time one of the guys that put Tung-Gun, who had a trouble, like big trouble.
Borderline, international incident, trouble.
And I remember I was expecting him.
And it was somehow I ended up having a conversation with him directly.
And I said something like, he said something like, you know, you got to expect things like this to happen.
And I was like, day, like he took this whole thing where people are worried about their careers and the freaking,
ah, that's that, the other thing he goes, you got to expect things like that.
You know, you know, you know, Jock, you got to expect things like this to happen.
That was his reaction.
And I'm thinking, this is badass right here.
This is so badass for him just to, you know, shrug his head a little bit and saying, go to the expect things like this to happen.
And I thought to myself, damn.
Imagine this, something crazy is happening.
And you're the leader, something totally unexpected.
And you go, you got to expect things like this to happen.
That's so legit.
I tried to always be that guy that said, you know, got to expect things like this to happen.
Next section, relationships, which by the way, if if you echelon front, so many answers, boil down to, you know, okay, well, how's your relationship with that person?
My post does this, that, anything, my support does that, how's your relationship with that person?
And then you hear the moment of silence, you know, because they know that it's not good.
And then you go, okay, let's start with building relationships where you can actually have a conversation with another human being.
So relationships are your most powerful tools for long-term success.
This is true for everyone in life.
You can accomplish much on your own and you need people in your life if you are to reach your fullest potential.
Since time available to spend with people is limited, you need to get the most out of every minute you have with them.
Interactions with family members should strengthen relationships, not weaken them.
Relationships with friends and coworkers should be built up at every opportunity, spending time with the people in your life should be.
In your life should increase trust, a speed of core and mutual support.
And I would say one of the, one of the more poignant points I've made in my life is telling people, if I'm going to have a conversation with someone, I'm going to build a relationship.
Go into it with that.
Go into it with like, I'm going to sit down with Dave.
Look, we have a tough topic to discuss.
We've got some problems, some issue came up.
My goal going into this is our relationships is going to get better.
That's the goal.
And that problem is going to get solved too, but my goal is to build that relationship.
Yeah.
If that's your mindset, doing what it says right here, interactions with family members should strengthen relationships, not weaken them.
Think of what that does to your interactions.
Think about what that does to your family.
If what you're trying to do is build, not weaken.
Friends and coworkers build.
Every time he's talked to him, build.
That's the way you win.
And then this last section is preparedness and safety.
The world can be dangerous and bad things happen.
Violence is a daily occurrence and can present itself without warning.
You need to be prepared both physically and mentally and ensure that people closest to you are well prepared as well.
You need to train effectively to respond to a crisis.
Marshall Arts and Self Defense be able to protect yourself and your family from physical violence.
Weapons training be able to protect your home from intruders or intervening in escape accordingly if required to in public.
And lastly, home safety emergency and disaster have a plan and ensure everyone in your home execute that plan and address stress.
Rehears that plan and assess how prepared your family has.
Have all the required equipment and supplies.
Everyone in your family should know CPR on basic lifesaving steps.
I heard Pat Mack.
Pat Mack said, what do you say?
You do is do in one of his little Instagram things.
And he said, and your family, something along the lines of, you can have assets and liabilities.
Oh, think about that.
You have assets and liabilities.
So the people in your family, if something happens,
can either be an asset or liability.
Where are they at?
And what kind of effort are you putting into your family to make sure that when the time comes, they're an asset, not a liability.
And here's what's cool.
And I talk about this with firearm training a lot.
Look, hey, firearm training is awesome.
And if you need to defend yourself, there is no better solution than either,
oh, okay, I guess avoidance is the best solution.
But if you are confronted in a situation that you cannot avoid,
firearm training is the best thing for you, right?
Having a firearm.
But firearm training isn't only good for that.
It helps with all kinds of things.
It helps your reaction time.
It helps you learn to relax.
It helps you control your emotions.
It helps you get your breathing under because it helps with all these other things.
Well, the same thing with family preparedness.
Oh, it's cool if you start.
It's cool in a moment of turmoil if you have assets and your family.
If your family members are assets and not liabilities.
But not only that, as you teach them things,
it's makes build a stronger family unit.
It makes them more prepared for life.
You're not going to be there all the time for your daughters and your sons.
They're going to be out there on their own in the world.
So have them be prepared.
Yeah, and bad things are going to happen in their life.
And they need to be prepared for that.
I remember when we were sort of put this section together,
and there's one more. But when we're doing this preparedness and safety,
I was kind of thinking about how am I going to fit into the bigger picture.
All these things are kind of building on each other.
And the martial arts and the weapons training kind of came very quickly.
Like that made sense.
Just like you just described, you should be able to get away from her problem.
If you can't, you should be able to take care of yourself or your family.
And then we started talking about home safety,
emergency, disaster.
And we had this whole section on this neighborhood community thing.
And at the time, it was, it was interesting to figure out how it
works.
And we piece it all together.
And we added like two words to this after this is all written before this thing going on out.
This whole COVID-19 thing that everybody is dealing with.
We added two words, but the rest of it was,
where doesn't, how doesn't this stuff help you?
Everyone of these things, like you just talked about the weapons training,
helps you with breathing.
And like, holy cow, like, would you like to be able to control your heart rate?
Yes, you can control your heart rate.
I remember learning that for the first time when I was learning how to shoot the pistol.
And my coach taught me how to breathe and just, and all of a sudden now,
this thing is having impact across ways that it never thought that there's any connection.
And it isn't just responding to the crisis, which you absolutely need to be able to do.
It's how that infiltrates all the things that you're doing and all the stuff we talked about
to.
And, you know, it's certainly coming full circle with what's going on now.
But do you want to have a strong relationship with the people in your neighborhood
to help respond to crisis?
Yes.
You do for any number of reasons.
Yes, the last section is neighborhood community impact,
developer relationships with other leaders in your neighborhood to protect against violence,
disease, or disaster, and create a safe environment for other residents.
Is that a good thing?
You know, is there anyone that's saying no isolate yourself?
No, don't be prepared to help out.
Do you not have good relationship with your neighbor?
Yes, and then go as wrong.
They won't be there to help you.
And, like I said, we wrote this, but we wrote the word disease and disaster in there.
Because hey, you know what?
That should be in that, that makes sense.
But the rest of us was just things we're thinking about.
How do you be a leader in your neighborhood has that help you?
How does it benefit you and where else does that affect your life?
And anybody that's in a community where they know they can rely on other people?
No, that's important for a whole little reason beyond just what we're dealing with right now.
And what we're dealing with is how you survive.
It's covered in move toward it is, and you won't survive alone.
Dude, I had that, we had massive ranges in San Diego, like 10 days ago.
Massive range up, and I'm sorry, Carl's bad.
Not San Diego, you go.
Thank you.
And it was 5, 30 in the morning.
I was awake, but I didn't, and I, and in PCG, I was going on and I heard the rain coming down.
Turns out my backyard completely was flooding.
And I'm back there at 530 with brooms and squeegees, just trying to keep the stuff from overflowing
into the house.
And my right and my left neighbor showed up out my house 10 minutes after they opened.
They got up, they checked their backyards, they checked each other's backyards, and they came to my house and saw me.
They both grabbed brooms.
I didn't call them, I didn't text them, I didn't ask them.
They just made it happen.
The cover move.
Cover move.
Two relationships.
Yeah, relationships.
And I obviously would do the same thing for them, but that was a pretty impressive thing for me.
And I'm like, oh, I did.
It was kind of look at the one guy who was like, just, it wouldn't dumped on the water.
And I go, thanks bro, and he's just kind of gave me the head nod.
Like, nothing was really needed to be said or anything.
He just was there.
It was good to go, man.
Nope.
There you go.
That's what we do.
So those are the things you get graded on the evaluation.
And then we say most people are capable of getting better.
Once they know the right attributes and understand what the parameters are and how to assess their performance.
A lot more people will get closer to their goals.
Can we actually get there?
No, we can't.
Being eminently qualified isn't a status we achieve or a conclusion we reach.
Being eminently qualified is being on the path that does not end.
It's the way of living life where we accept that every single day there is more to do.
The eminently qualified human understands this and recognizes that no matter what success that has been achieved in one place,
there is more to do elsewhere.
And as we shift our focus from one to the other, that success we just achieved will begin to erode.
Our gains will decay and we will have to rebuild what we have lost.
The eminently qualified human knows there is no end.
Since there is no stopping point on the quest to be coming in eminently qualified human,
what are we really trying to do? The answer is simple. We are trying to get better every day.
This requires growth in every facet of personal and professional development.
This requires action.
We have to turn our words into action.
We have to turn our ideas into action.
We have to turn our skills into action.
We have to turn our goals into action.
There are many resources out there that help us understand what we should,
how we should behave and what is important.
What we don't have is an evaluation system for human beings that lets us define our goal,
identify the critical attributes required to achieve it,
and track our progress along the way until now.
Here is the evaluation.
Now we get into this evaluation.
And all this does is it breaks it down.
And this is, I guess, the root of,
when I said, hey, we'll have something out for everyone in a week or whatever I said.
Whatever, for you know, horrible assessment I made of how long this was going to take.
This is what we were actually talking about.
And what it does is it breaks down like what you should be striving for.
We already went through the categories, but for health, I'll read a couple of these just so people get the general idea.
Health, physical fitness activities that increase cardiovascular strength,
flexibility, mobility, daily actions that promote physical health.
Here's the score of zero.
Did not perform any activities that contribute to my overall physical fitness level.
You get a zero that day.
Here's the five highest score you can get.
Participated in training that reached a level of exertion beyond my perceived limits.
The most intense physical training that I was capable of performing
said a new baseline for maximum useful effort.
So you're going at it.
Got one for sleep and rest got one for diet nutrition.
Here's the diet nutrition.
Did not eat properly and did not provide any nutritional benefit to perform critical daily tasks.
You get a zero.
The other end of the spectrum consumed ideal food intake and maintained perfect adherence to diet or fasting.
Every calorie was optimal.
Nothing was consumed that didn't contribute to health and nutrition, allowing for a sustained peak level of performance throughout the entire day.
That's what you're aiming for.
And that's what the eminently qualified person does.
And that's why a five.
Not a lot of five.
That's around that same thing with the performance valuation of military.
You know, it was that five was like, that dude is legit.
And I look at that and I'm like, nope, that's nothing.
I'm not a five.
But personal development, next one intellectual fitness time management, financial management, personal goals.
You're going to get graded on each one of these.
The intellectual fitness one, I'm going to read five.
Because I like this one.
Listen, achieved a major breakthrough in understanding, grasp a concept that made significant impact my life and my ability to impart knowledge and skills.
You always funny about that. Dave, have I ever called you up and said, hey, or sent you a text.
I sent you a text the other day that was an actual breakthrough in understanding grasp a concept that made significant impact in my life.
Right.
That happens like once every, I don't know, three months to me, that I actually do something where I go, oh, dude.
It doesn't happen often, but those are really good days.
Like that call with that text became a phone call that came along phone call like, those are good days, man.
Those five are when they happen or so awesome, they're so legit.
But they don't happen.
No, they don't hardly ever.
Uh, then you, you, you, you called no, you called me the other day.
And it was maybe four or five days after we had this legit conversation about a major breakthrough.
And you go, hey, you got a minute and I go, oh, damn.
I'm like, this is the call from Dave, he's got the breakthrough coming at me.
That it was a client call.
And he was like, you know, let me know what's going on with the client.
I was like, that said, I said, I thought you had something.
Sorry.
Uh, yeah, so that one's all about, you know, just personal development and getting better than X1.
The next one is professional development, the little definition productive and impactful, meaningful and lucrative professional life.
Presuit of and growth in a career field that provides financial security and freedom along with the personal fulfillment and satisfaction.
Performance.
Here's a five for performance.
Outperformed all expectations, vastly exceeded requirements and set new standard for job performance, completed all assignments ahead of schedule with a high degree of accuracy.
Helped others complete their assigned task, consider the impact of work up, down and across the team and contribute, contributed fully to maximize it.
That's a five, though.
It's going to be tough to get.
Going to be tough to get.
Here's a zero performed work below the standard.
Didn't not work at all was counterproductive regarding individual and company wide success.
I'm going to actually photocopy this and blow it up for echo Charles.
I'm just going to set, you know, like a goal.
We also kind of set a base on, you know, that's zero.
You didn't do anything in the five is pretty hard, but there's a little bit of baseline too, like what a one is.
Because a one on a scale is year to five, not a great score.
But a one is probably what a lot of people are doing.
You know, one is.
Yeah, yeah, here's one completed. This is one performance in your profession completed basic assigned tasks identified areas for tasks where additional guidance.
For additional four additional guidance in order to complete assignments, but did not perform it in a no worthy manner.
That's a lot.
And I think I think when we talked about the Marine Corps.
Yes.
Or minimum. Like when you when you're below average, you're doing a beast. You're doing your job.
That's right. Doing your job is like the minimum and you're kind of a below average Marine.
This one is like, oh, that's what I do.
Yeah.
To be the most basic qualification, like the lowest level of qualified because, you know, the the stump, I think says unqualified Marine.
And that's why there's one of them. Like there's not a lot of unqualified Marines out there.
But everybody else, if they're qualified, you're a one. You're just you're doing your job.
You're doing your job. You're doing your job. You're a one.
Yeah.
You're doing your one. And that's good to go. But if you're on the path of being the aminally qualified Marine or enemy, you have a long way to go.
That reap this kind of rebased line. What this scoring system really was about.
You're not getting three's before it's for doing your job.
You get a one.
You're going to go above and beyond. And you got to extend yourself in a way you didn't think you could to really improve that score over time.
This is a scary thing to do to yourself. You know what just made me scared.
Echo Charles, you're going to like this one because it has to do with lifting.
You know what I'm saying? How many days you go in there? You've got it done.
You're kind of proud that you got it done, right?
Yeah.
But it's like a one.
Like you did you went in and did your duty in the gym. You went. You lifted. You did whatever.
You got a little mac on.
But you know.
Right.
How often is it a one? What's a one for physical, the Belle of physical.
Physical fitness.
Here's a one.
Engaged in basic fitness routine or activity.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's pretty weak.
I usually do usually do more than that.
Yeah.
And then okay.
That's to me sounds like you, you know, you took like a an aerobics class.
Yeah.
Or like something you could do in the middle of like a barbecue or something like that.
But two to four is engage in intense physical activity and demanding exercise that increased overall fitness levels while addressing weaker areas.
That's that's you give yourself between two and four.
I bet I get a lot of threes.
Yeah.
I bet I get a lot of one.
I'm like, yeah, that was a, you know, I got better.
But also sometimes I'm to get the main tating.
Sometimes it's two.
Yeah.
Here's the, I think like, well, in my specific case, and I'm sure other people like this too,
where it's kind of a gift and a curse situation where that, yeah,
I want to be.
You might as well not even work out.
Depending on how long you're, you're putting up ones and zeros, but like a one is not worth the workout.
We're not worth the mental energy, not worth the momentum of what about just the discipline that you got it done.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I give some credit.
There's my curse.
Yeah, right there.
To me, it's like, okay, but no, I don't think about that.
Okay.
And stuff.
Well, now I do not more, but I'm just saying routinely, no.
But not like, oh, the fact that I did it, I wish it played more of a part of my mind.
Put it that way.
Yeah.
When I go live, it's like three, four, sometimes five, or why even live kind of thing.
But again, that's good because I get good workouts routinely.
But the junk part is like, if I'm not in the mood to confront that three, four, five,
it's gonna just be a zero straight up.
So I'm throwing up more zeros than maybe I should be.
You seem saying did not work out at all.
Yeah.
So those, those, do you stretch if you don't, if you're not, no, let me say this.
If you're not feeling like you don't feeling like confronting a three, four, five,
which is a good way of putting it.
Because that's face it when you're staring at a four, because I got some more.
Some of my workouts doesn't matter whether you want to put out or not.
If you execute it, you're doing a five.
Yeah.
If you go in there and do it, you're doing at least a four point eight, right?
Maybe you could hold something back, but it's just going to be pain.
It's just going to be pain.
So if you don't feel like confronting that and you go, well, I don't feel like confronting that,
but I'm going to go stretch and improve my mobility.
At least you get a one.
You know, in the words of echo Charles, a one is not nothing.
It's something.
And it's something.
And look, this, we've built this out.
We use that model and try to come up with a human version of that.
You know, this isn't designed to punish you, but it's a little bit of the recognition.
Like if you just kind of get up, you get downstairs at the gym,
and you kind of knock out a workout, hey, look, that's good, right?
But you're grading yourself on this.
That's also just a one.
You just sort of did the basics, the, the base on what you need to do.
You didn't get better.
You didn't improve.
You didn't get faster.
You didn't get it stronger.
You might have maintained.
It's a hell of a lot better than a zero, but you also got to be honest
herself.
And we're just doing one of like 20 different categories.
Those ones, as I look at those ones and I'm like, man,
I do a lot of ones.
And that keeps me, you know, that keeps me at a one.
Yeah.
And if I want that one to become anything else,
there's a lot of lot more work than needs to be there.
And again, it's not, it shouldn't punish yourself for a one,
but you got to recognize it.
That's what you're doing.
Guess what you are.
You're a one.
And you want to get better?
You got to put in some work, some real work.
In any of these attributes.
This is, we're talking right now just one thing.
That's true for humility.
It's true for leadership.
It's true for all kinds of things.
A one is you coming up and you're doing your job.
You're coming to work and you're doing your job.
That's a one.
Yeah.
And that's good.
That's clever to give it numbers like that too.
Because like who wants to be a one?
Like who wants to roll in be like through up a one.
I'm a strike one.
And you want to admit that that they what they've been doing is a one.
Who wants to really look in the mirror and go, you know what, man?
I've been cracking out a lot of ones.
Yes.
And I'm not as good as I need to be.
Yeah.
But ones.
Those ones don't add up.
You know, where and they here's part of like the, I guess maybe my ex.
It's partially an excuse really.
It's like.
Why even go out there, you know, why out there meaning to the gym or whatever.
Why even go to the gym if it's just going to be a one.
If I if I can smell the one coming on like why even bother with that.
Because what what's that going to do to my brain is it going to get me a little bit more used to throwing up ones.
How many times you're going to do a one you end up with a three?
Yeah.
I mean technically I'm going in with the goal of a three.
And then I get like a four or something like that.
But it's always like a baseline high level high standard workout.
That's and that's why I used to skip workout so much because I'm like man, I can't.
I can't do it.
If I had the mindset, oh, I could just go in and stretch and maybe warm up or if I ever had that mindset,
it's like, rather that's easy to make it in the gym.
But then I can, I guess thinking about it more that that could just help you.
Because you know how when you get in there, you're like, oh, I read something the other day.
I think it was you set up yourself up for three minutes of practice on guitar.
Yeah.
Like hey, you got to practice three minutes a day.
That's it.
Three minutes.
Tell me you can't find three minutes.
And what they know the power behind this is if you get out your guitar and you get it in your hands and you,
you know pull out your guitar pick and you start strumming.
It's going to be at least seven minutes, right?
It's going to be 12 minutes.
The hardest part was going on.
I don't feel like practicing for an hour right now.
You don't need to practice for three minutes.
And if that turns out to be 12, cool.
Yeah.
I guess like if you, but then I guess the other part of my little maybe it's partially excuse.
Maybe it's legit.
I don't know.
But it's like a judge.
I don't want to get into that routine of setting low bars.
You know, as a goal of a workout.
You know what?
Here's what happens to me.
I will be like sore.
I'll have.
Oh, that's a zero.
That's a rest there.
There.
No, I'll have big thumbs.
But what I'll do is I'll go in and be like, okay, maintenance day, maintenance routine, run the maintenance routine.
I'll just do like some arrow or hit a hit the aerosol bike for a few hundred calories or whatever.
And then just, yeah, kind of take a, that's a, it's a one.
Yeah.
Well, but it's not a zero.
Yeah, but then again, if it's like, if you have thumbs and you need recovery, that's the,
thumbs are just indicated that you need recovery kind, you know, there's more to it than that for sure.
But it's a good fight.
It's a, you mean, indicate it right.
So if you for real believe for real believe not convinced yourself or, you know, made an extra, but if you
for a believe that you need recover or recovery.
And you go in and just to get the blood flowing, get some stretch, some mobility stuff, whatever that could wind up, not being an exertion hard hard core workout.
But literally achieving the goal of that workout.
Same thing.
Because if you do some hard core work out when you're in your recovery, so you could get a, a foreign recovery,
we get a for like, the little ability.
Texting there.
It seems like you could.
Yeah.
All right.
Next section's character and leadership.
And again, you know, the emotional controls in there, what the zero for emotional controls lost control of emotions when interacting with people around me during the stressful encounter.
Set back any progress toward controlling emotions.
Actually, it should have been a low stress encounter, right?
That would be the worst.
You're in a low stress encounter and you get emotional.
We have to change that because the other end of this spectrum is maintained,
or maintained emotions under the rest in the most difficult situation possible.
Because that's true.
Like that's that you get credit for that.
You could have five things are going crazy.
You maintain was able to immediately identify my own red flags or those of people around me to touch and make ideal decision to get the best possible.
Outcome that otherwise would have been missed.
The best possible outcome.
Yeah.
And that's under most difficult situation.
Because that's easy to follow.
You actually need your environment needs to help you get a five vote.
If you're not dealing this, you're getting a five vote.
Yeah.
I mean, that's why the one is what the one is.
I maintained control of my emotions and normal situations was aware of periods of heightened emotions.
I did not let them get out of control.
If you had a normal day and nothing really went on your day,
you didn't even have the chance for a five.
So you get a one.
You get a one.
Yeah.
And you talk to the hit this is kind of scary thing.
The scary ones are the one like dude, that's most of my days.
Yeah.
Guess what?
You weren't in even in a situation to respond like that.
You did not have this overwhelming situation where tons of emotions were coming out because you just had a regular normal day.
But you don't get credit for that either.
Yeah.
You know, it's cool.
You add your gist into your day and all of a sudden you can get a two for sure.
You can get a two for sure because you're getting emotional like there's going to be stress moments.
You get, you know, you're getting.
Whatever.
That's character and leadership relationships in there.
That emotional one.
Yeah.
That was a good little addition when you say the best possible outcome.
Because because let's face it.
Some people can dilude themselves with the emotional outburst.
You know, how just kind of how you mentioned like some people,
they do their little emotional tirade and then they're, they kind of feel solid like yeah, I probably look pretty powerful in that moment.
So they almost have this little sense of pride.
But they ignore kind of the outcome, you know, they just, they focus too much in my opinion on how they felt at the moment and then they're kind of recalling that feeling and they did.
They kind of chalk it up as a little bit of a little success moment.
They're giving themselves a five when they really didn't get the best possible outcome.
Yeah.
Because they saw some movie where it looked cool or whatever sort of thing.
I looked like Christopher Rockin or whatever, whoever he looked like or whatever.
Meanwhile, the outcome is all terrible.
You seem insane.
Yeah, that's a good like did.
Cool.
I'll leave it at that.
Relationships, quality time with your family, quality time with friends and coworkers.
The next one's preparedness and safety.
You know, did you train martial arts?
Did you do weapons training?
Did you do fire safety emergency training?
Did you get connect with your neighborhood in your community?
Here's a, here's a score of two to four.
What for martial arts was part of aggressive training and significant learning that advanced my ability for self defense.
Learned important new skills and techniques and made major improvement.
I, I rarely hit that.
Me too.
Now in the beginning, it's easier to hit back.
Yeah, you're learning more.
Yeah.
But dang.
I want someone to block that like echo.
Yeah.
Weapons training.
Let's see if I'm biased when I wrote these.
Participated in an aggressive training and significant learning that advanced my weapons proficiency and comfort.
A acquired new equipment and skills that enhance self confidence and ability with self defense.
No, actually that's a, that's a, that's solid.
Is that well written?
Yeah, it's solid.
What is that?
Did you write that?
I'm trying to think of.
I thought I might skew it or I thought we might skew it towards.
Like, as long as you shot today, you're good.
Yeah.
Like as long as you've got rounds down range, that's a, that's a one you think?
Well, you're engaged in limited.
Here's a one in weapons training.
Engage in limited training to maintain proficiency but took no steps towards acquiring needed weapons or advanced proficiency.
Yeah.
That's, that means you got on the range and you still get just a one.
You know, maybe drive fire to you still get a little bit of a one.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
What if you didn't go to the range but you drive fire, maybe this is what we're saying.
It's hard to get.
It's hard to win.
It's hard to be a three, four, five.
Yeah.
Uh, and then it goes on to explain this.
Exactly.
I don't know what you can twice a month.
Like bro, to twice a month doesn't get you there.
Yeah.
No.
That up at all.
Wrap up to kind of explain the evaluation and then what to do if you fall off the path.
And this leads to, I think this part about the evaluation about how this works is actually kind of important to think about how you are going to approach that nature.
And how you're going to assess yourself and what it really means to give yourself any of these grades and what's really going on there.
Well, it says it is designed is not designed just to grade yourself, but also so you know that you're trying what you're trying to become a requires humility and brutally honest self assessment.
No one else is scoring you.
Don't compare yourself to others.
This is about your capacity compared to your performance.
Oh, that's what Charles likes that.
It's your capacity compared to your performance.
It's you against you.
Ask yourself how much effort you put into something and measure it against what you are capable of.
The more effort you put into something, the more progress you will make.
This is different from person to person.
And different for yourself as time goes on.
If you've never exercised before in your life and you walk a mile, you may have exerted yourself close to the limit.
That might be a five.
That same workout might be a one for someone who's been in the gym for years. It might even be a.
Yeah, might even be a zero.
But as you get better and improve that one mile walk no longer represents your maximum capacity so it no longer represents a five for you.
As you move down the path towards an enimently qualified human, your capacity will increase as a result.
Improving actually becomes more difficult over time.
You have to work even harder and do more to make even the same amount or even less of an improvement.
This system only works if you understand what you're capable of and if you're honest about what you have done being easy on yourself doesn't help.
You or the people in your life you must commit.
You must stay on the path.
So yeah, we all know that the stronger you get the harder it becomes to get stronger.
The better you get it to you the harder it becomes to get better at you.
Which is weird because there's a ramp up session even with working out.
You know, think about this, but when someone just starts working out for a little while, they can't do it.
Do the exercise, they got domes every day and they're just not really making the gains.
But then after a little while they start going, oh, same thing with your jitz or you start learning in all of a sudden you can process it.
Like I think you're optimum.
I think where you're learning the most is probably when you're a blue belt.
Do you think?
Yeah, it depends on what you mean by what you're learning.
So you're learning the most information is being absorbed.
Yeah, the big strides.
I think you're right at a white belt.
That's when you're learning the most moves.
I'll tell you that thing that.
But you can't assimilate the maybe it's a high end of white belt.
Yeah, I'm sure it's a real silver on in that zone.
And working out it is a common thing.
Well, I think in trainers or in the training community, that's a normal thing.
It's called newbie gains.
So you get gains in the beginning way more than towards the end.
So like if you're advanced, lift or bodybuild or whatever.
Yeah, your gains come slowly.
But the new guys newbie gains.
Newbie gains.
That's what they call it.
That's what you know.
I'm just saying it's a thing.
Next section, what do you do when you fall off the path?
You can't and we'll fall off the path.
It happens every once, sometimes we do it to ourselves.
Sometimes life hits or something we didn't see coming.
People get sick, accidents occur.
Things happen to the world.
We can't control and those things can push us off the path.
But you can control how you react when you fall off.
What you do to get yourself back on the path that's up to you.
The situation doesn't dictate what happens to you.
You dictate the situation.
You decide when you fall off the path, ask yourself why.
Why are you not doing the things you know you should do an unsparing self assessment.
Identify corrective measures and ruthlessly implement those measures.
Take action.
Get back on the path.
For anything that affects your health or mind of your health.
For anything that affects the health of your mind or body,
see your doctor or professional in the field.
Sometimes you've got to go to a mechanic.
That's a doctor.
That's a psychologist.
This is not a time to rely on friends or family members.
You need professional help.
So get it.
That being said, there are protocols to help get you back on the path.
These are some protocols.
And again, I talked about where these came from.
I'll do this one.
I don't want to do them all, but I'll do this one.
Break up.
I don't know why I'm doing this one because there's like you put out a video and everything of this one.
Here's the clean version.
Here's like here's what you do.
Break up.
My relationship is over and I don't know what to do.
Number one, detach.
Your emotions are your enemy during a breakup.
They will not enable you to make good decisions or make good choices.
Of course, this will be hard.
The core of relationships is built on emotions.
So in order to detach from your emotions, take a step back.
Look at the situation from someone else's point of view.
You might think no one else understands and you are right.
They don't understand the emotions you have.
But that means the emotions are not blinding them.
Try to see that.
If you have trouble detaching, go to step 1A.
It might also help to let your emotions out.
But do so in a way that does not affect the situation.
Find a private place where you can scream, cry, or otherwise release your emotions.
Try physically exerting yourself to get rid of the emotional aggression.
Hit a punching bag, go for a run.
Be, repeat step 1A as needed.
Gotta get those emotions out sometimes.
That's a way to detach.
To assess the person you have separated from and evaluate who they actually are.
So this is why it's important to detach before you do this.
The truth is that person is not who you thought they were.
The person you cared about does not exist.
The idea that this person was a trustworthy faithful companion is not true.
You created an ideal around their framework, but they do not actually exist.
They have proven they do not exist by their actions.
Do not dwell on what it was because it wasn't.
Do not dwell on what it could have been because it couldn't.
It was a lie.
Which is this you see so many.
And I guess I'm going to talk about it from a guy perspective because in the teams you
get guys that would break up with the girl and that's why I saw it over and over again from the guy perspective.
And that's what they know.
It was she was so good and we could have and it's always that hanging on to this lie.
And it's a lie.
It's not true.
That person doesn't exist.
That girl that you thought you were going to marry and everything's going to be,
oh no, not going to work because she didn't exist.
Step number three, be thankful.
Be thankful that this lie was uncovered now instead of later before you invested even more into that person.
That person who you now realized was not who you thought they were.
Be thankful that you found out when you did that this person is untrustworthy.
Be thankful that you can now move forward.
Oh man, it's tough to tell.
To tell that to the crying human.
No, step number four, wish them luck.
Yes, perhaps it is a final conversation, perhaps it is a note, but wish them luck.
They are going to need it.
Do not harbor any ill feelings.
Those ill feelings do you know good.
Number you, not as a spiteful vindictive slave to your emotions and whims, but as a good mature person ready to move on positively in the world.
That's one of those things where luck.
Let me continue on before I get into this.
Walk, step number five, walk away.
You know this person is not who you wanted them to be and you can't change that.
So walk away, move on.
Don't look back.
Step number six, don't look back.
Your mind will page play tricks on you.
You will lie to yourself, tell yourself that maybe it can work and maybe it was wrong.
And if I can just try one more time, maybe he or she will change.
No, that's not happening.
They aren't going to change.
And the fact the matter is the more you crawl back to them, the more you big little yourself and push them further away.
Don't do it.
Walk away.
Don't look back.
And that's the part that I was going to kind of venture into is if you're in one of these situations where you like all of it will need.
I could say one more thing.
And that is what drives people away.
That's what they don't respect and they don't like.
So the best possible thing you can do is say hey, good luck.
I'll see you later.
Walk away and don't look back.
The minute you look back and throw out the lifeline and beg for whatever.
They want to get rid of you even more.
So the best possible thing you can do.
The win win move is walk away and don't look back.
It's the win win move.
And then seven get back on the path.
Wake up early, work out, read, write, learn, play an instrument.
Train your jets who eat clean, clean your room, clean your car, get ahead of work.
When someone breaks your trust, when someone breaks our trust, we question ourselves.
We think our judgment is bad because we put our faith in this person who hurt us.
So how do you build that trust back with yourself?
Look back and learn from the relationship.
See the mistakes you made and the red flags you missed, then look for them next time around.
Recognize that there are plenty of people out there in the world that are trust worthy and faithful.
Go find one of them.
Move forward in that relationship with a clean slate.
Don't bring baggage.
So there's your protocol.
And I think the humorous protocol, the original protocol was like,
Order Pete. I made something up off the top of my head.
This is the legit protocol.
And man, if you can execute this, it's hard to execute because people get all wrapped around.
They get wrapped around this thing.
So deep and so hard.
So, but it's a protocol.
It's a protocol.
It's a way to handle these things.
We got a way in here to handle death.
A protocol for death.
What do you do when someone dies?
Here's the protocol.
What do you do when you have some kind of financial problems?
What's the protocol?
What do you do?
How do you handle it?
What do you do when you have a betrayal of trust?
Right?
Because it's not always in a relationship like a spouse or a girl, an intimate relationship that you have a bit trail of trust.
Sometimes it can happen in a work environment.
Sometimes it can happen just with friends.
So betrayal of trust?
What do you do then?
How do you handle it?
What's the protocol?
We got problems going on at work.
How do I handle it?
What if I said or did something that hurt someone's feeling and I need to make it right?
In other words, what if I need to make an apology?
What's the protocol to apologize?
How do we do it?
Some people go through their lives.
They do not apologize.
How do I do when there's an accident or there's an illness?
Like severe medical diagnosis?
What do I do?
How do I handle it?
What's the protocol?
What's the protocol for addiction?
What do I do?
How do we handle this?
What's the protocol for trauma?
I suffered a psychological trauma.
I don't know how to deal with it.
What do I do then?
And again, look, these topics of trauma, these topics of addiction.
Look, that's why we say you might need to get professional help.
In fact, you should.
But even when you get professional help, you're going to see these protocols.
Protocols to follow.
And then there's this last one, the unknown.
What do I do when I don't know what to do?
Something bad happened.
I don't even know where to start.
I'll go through this.
This is the strategy protocol.
Every scenario cannot be addressed.
So this is the protocol for what to do when you don't know what to do.
Start by taking a step back to attach, take a breath and look around.
Make sure you assess everything that is happening.
Two, think about your possibility.
Think about what your possibilities are and what decisions you could make right now.
And what are the likely outcomes of those decisions?
Three, write it down.
What does success look like in this situation?
How can you get there?
How long should it take?
Do you know anyone can provide guidance or advice?
Four, work the plan.
Take action that moves you forward.
Don't stay stagnant.
Don't dwell.
Take a small step towards what you think is the best decision.
Not a giant step because you don't know exactly what is going on.
This is a step that allows you to assess again before you decide on what to do next.
Five, push forward and then pause and reassess again.
Repeat and press forward to the point of friction.
Press until you reach the point that you see a new opportunity or need to pull back and reassess again.
Six, allow yourself room to maneuver.
When it gets hard, don't surrender, don't give up, don't quit.
Then you haven't failed.
All it means you need to regroup and reattach.
You've learned.
You've gained experience and you're still alive.
There's going to be things in life that you don't expect.
And you don't know what to do.
And there's the protocol.
The beauty of the protocols and we were writing them.
It can expect at the very beginning is that even with death and illness, you are in control.
Maybe not everything.
Maybe you're not a control of everything.
But you have so much more control than you might give yourself credit for.
And you have to take control of that situation.
You are in control of how you react and how you respond.
And running through those protocols is you being in control.
And you talk about, hey, that's hard.
Walk in away from the girl, the one you know is the right one for you.
But it turns out they're not.
That's hard.
But if you can do that, if you can control that situation, think of how much more in your life you can control.
And that's what those protocols are about as you being in control of these situations.
It is much as you can.
Yeah, and we've all said that it's actually on front to a bunch of our clients.
What do we do now?
What do we do with COVID-19?
We can't control this.
We control how we respond.
That's what we control.
And you absolutely control how you respond.
The book wraps up.
You're on the path.
You're seeing the results of your hard work and your efforts are paying off unmitigated daily discipline.
And all things is not just to saying it's your life.
Your health is excellent.
Your work and personal performance is exceeding expectations.
You are leading in all aspects of your life.
So what now?
Think those who helped you along the way, take stock and what you have achieved, then go harder.
Lead.
Lead your family, your community, your country, lead everyone in everything in your world.
Lead others to the path.
Show them the way.
And you called me out on that.
You said, Dave, there's one nice road.
It's so good.
And you said, go harder.
I was like, yes, I like it.
And then it closes out unmitigated,
dis-dale discipline in all things.
It's the only way.
We've got downloadable evaluation forms at jockelpublishing.com slash downloads.
So you can take those forms and you can start filling them out for yourself.
And there you go.
So I'm 174, podcast 174.
I said to think about where you're at.
Are you really a five?
Really?
Or are you a two?
Can you aim for a three or a four?
Is there any quality that you can reach five on?
Good question.
Let's try.
Let's try because we might not be able to reach five,
but we can absolutely get better.
We can absolutely continue to pursue the quest that never is going to end.
Trying to become an eminently qualified human being.
And if you live that way,
if you live trying to become an eminently qualified human being,
what you'll end up doing is living an eminently honorable wife.
And a life eminently worth living.
There you go.
Anything else, Dave?
Negative.
Well, echo Charles, you know what that means?
Yes.
Since it looks like we are attempting to head down the path.
What he got, what recommendations do you have that can help us,
you know, proceed shall we say?
I've got a few.
So first thing, as always, is due to you,
although at this current exact moment in time,
we're doing a lot less if any.
Because we have to stay safe because that's part of it too.
You've got to stay safe.
You've got to probably one of the things this whole thing is about.
We have to stay safe.
Yeah, we're prepared to do just something else.
Less, this is how we're going to do it.
All these things I'm about to say right now are all included in the path.
Like their path, what do you say?
Like where the, or inclusive.
Whatever path, where the end path inclusive.
Yeah.
You say both. And pick your, pick your pronoun.
Yes.
No, that's not a pronoun.
You can pick your word.
Pick your verbage.
Yes.
So, due to when we can, part of it for sure.
You say martial arts.
I feel like you were like fighting your pan back.
Because you just want to write due to you,
but you just got to go martial arts.
No, that's not necessarily actually, that's not true.
Okay.
Because due to you is definitely really good.
But you got to learn that.
Boxing that boy tying that wrestling.
You can't get five by just limiting yourself to just,
just, just straight out totally and being rigid to it.
Yeah.
You got to do it anymore.
Just sure.
All right.
Well, but we are doing jiu-jitsu.
Yes, sir, big time.
It includes jiu-jitsu.
Include it, but not limited to.
We'll see that in the moment.
All right.
So, when you do, when you do jiu-jitsu, you need a key.
Anourage card, because these are the uniform.
So, get the best key.
Best for Ashcard from origin.
Originmade.com, where you can get all this stuff.
So, he's, Rushcards.
A bunch of other cool stuff on there.
Also jeans.
Mm-hmm.
So, getting origin made jeans.
American-made denim does improve the community around you.
That is a good, very valid point.
Yes.
Very valid point.
And right now, it is April 21st, 2020.
And there's a pandemic going on.
We at origin, the origin team, has shifted to making face coverings.
Is what they're officially called?
Because we don't want to imply that they have the medical qualities that an N95 mask has on,
but the government has recommended and medical professionals have recommended that people
wear face coverings.
So, we are making a massive amount of face coverings right now.
So, people that have ordered jeans, we actually shut down those lines right now.
But we are seeing the light at the end of the tunnel.
And we are ready to open the jeans line back up, the gelines back up,
and we'll be doing that shortly.
So, just check originmade.com if you want to pair jeans.
If you want to pair boots, we're there.
We're making them.
We're going to do a little adjustment because of the demands of this pandemic put on America.
So, it made some adjustments.
But in the end, we're going to make American products.
We're going to make American made jeans, gays,
rash cards, t-shirts, thumb on your heads.
So, I appreciate everyone's patience as we try and support America through this pandemic scenario.
Also supplementation.
Keep you on the path, keep you in the game.
Big time.
So, what have we got?
Mulk, additional protein,
and some of the dessert, by the way.
Discipline and discipline go.
Essentially the same thing in different what delivery method.
Yeah.
It is essentially the same thing in different delivery methods.
That's for your brain.
Yeah.
Discipline, discipline go RTD.
Ready to drink.
Is that a term from that industry?
Right?
Like you wouldn't say hey, can you grab an RTD?
No, you'd say grab me a can of go.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
But in the industry, which I had to learn about,
it's called RTD.
Ready to drink.
Crack it open and drink it.
So, yeah, we got all that.
We got Mulk, Warrior Kid Mulk.
We got Jockel White T.
And by the way, all these products, you can get them all mine at originmain.com.
Or you can go to Vitaminshop.
If you go to a Vitaminshop in your AO.
You can get some.
What's your, what's your, your biggest, you, you look like you want to say something about.
Yeah.
So, I'm on the Mulk channel.
Everybody knows that I would like to think that.
I'm well-associated with discipline go.
And I thought was, we last time we said I thought it was ready to deploy cans.
Because I grab them and then I go with them.
Oh, it's back.
But I'm on another train right now.
I don't know if I'm supposed to be announcing this train.
But I'm on the Cold War train.
Oh, yeah.
So, that cannot go unstated that the, that supplement, the Cold War supplement right now.
Yeah.
I would say a requirement right now and something that is part of my current repertoire.
Well, especially, you know, a month ago, we were traveling all the time.
And I was, but I was at Ground Zero.
Yeah.
So, I did a gig in San Francisco, Seattle, New York,
like the three first kind of areas where the pandemic broke out.
But, you know, also in everyone of those places,
shaking between 1,000 and 2,000 people's hands.
Totally.
In each one of those places, traveling on an airplane with a bunch of other people
in between those places.
So, yeah, you've got to have that immune system engaged.
Yeah, you're cold war on.
Yeah.
I feel like Cold War is more of a tank than a train.
I'm sure I'm saying.
I do.
Because, yeah, I look like a detective armor.
Yeah, so maybe tank could be there.
Does Cold War tank, does that even sound like a thing, though?
Because, Mol train sounds like a thing.
Yeah.
And D plane kind of sounds like something, too.
But, D plane all the time.
It used to sound like something you tried to implement.
Oh, it's implemented.
Put it that way, indeed.
All right.
And the last, all right.
Cool.
Yes.
These are all things approved by the path.
100%.
Really?
Let's face it.
Also, we have a store.
It's called Jocco Store.
So, where you can get items to represent while you're on the path.
In quarantine or not, I'm saying that's time goes on.
You said I'm saying anyway.
We got shirts on there.
Hoodies.
More rashguards.
They go free.
All these good stuff.
Hoodies.
Tracers hats.
Beans.
Flex it.
All that stuff.
The boxes.
We've got about the boxes.
The boxes are.
We've put together a bunch of boxes for the live gigs.
I was doing the live gigs.
Got canceled.
So, we got a bunch of these boxes.
We just reassemble.
I put some of them up there.
And they sold out.
So, we just assembled some more of them.
So, if you want to get those boxes, there's a warrior kid box.
And there's a deaf core box.
They're like, um, they have the flags.
You're going to warrior kid flagging to just pre-close freedom flag in there.
Then they got a bunch of other cool things.
It's like a little tool kit for the path.
That's what it is.
Yeah, that's what it is.
I like what I got mine.
I like where you're at.
Yes, sure.
Oh, yes.
We have those all on jocostor.com.
Also, subscribe to this podcast if you haven't already.
Because it's important in many ways.
Um, arguably.
Yeah, real, arguably.
And I'll tell you what.
If you're two hours in whatever many minutes deep into this thing, you haven't subscribed.
Well, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know if they don't want to stick to you as a person.
We got some other podcast.
We got the thread, which is with Darrell Cooper, Margar Made.
So, you can check that one out.
We got grounded podcast, which is a podcast about you to do it.
The thread is about.
The thread is about the threads between history and the past and how they tie into what's happening right now in the world.
So, that's been cool.
The warrior kid podcast.
For the warrior kids.
And then we also from the warrior kid podcast.
We got some warrior kids soap, young Aiden Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
He's making soap.
He's making killer soap.
That's the name of the soap.
Oh, yeah.
And if you get that kind of soap, it will definitely give you the
capability to...
Stay clean.
Yeah.
Which is part of the path too, by the way.
Don't be all dirty.
Yeah.
I guess you've got to be willing to get dirty, but not stay dirty.
You're gonna stay clean.
That's what you're gonna stay, but with varying levels of capability to endure dirt.
In terms.
Okay.
I'm trying to put it into context here.
Anyway, also we have YouTube channel.
For video version of this podcast and other in excerpts as well.
This turns out to be a cool way, I think, to lead to the podcast.
Be more immersed in the conversation.
I think.
You can see what good deal Dave looks like.
Yeah, man.
Can't.
Good looking guy at the end of the day for sure.
So yeah, YouTube channel, jockelp podcast.
Official now.
Checkmark.
You know the checkmark thing.
Even if it's just so that you can recognize the real one from the impossible.
It's not just one.
Yeah.
It's not.
YouTube.
Jockel mode of a shit channel.
Sure.
Yeah.
And we also have psychological warfare.
iTunes, Google Play and MP3 platforms.
If you want to check that out, we have flip side canvas to code a Meyer, making cool things
to hang on your wall that will keep you on the path.
Got a bunch of books.
Leadership strategy and tactics field manual.
Dave Berkley with the one of the first people to read that.
You might have even been the first person to read that.
So you get some credit there.
I appreciate that.
That book that should be an RTD field manual ready to deploy.
That thing needs to be not the ready anytime.
Immediately reference any issue you got.
That thing stays with you.
It does not go in the shelf.
I think it's ready to deploy.
Yeah.
That's I like it.
It's just about everything I get asked.
I can answer it in that book.
Bro.
So pretty straightforward.
Also got way the warrior kid.
One, two and three.
Are your kids still reading that book?
They are reading that book.
Read it.
Number three.
Finish number three last night.
Last chapter with Matt last night.
Didn't want to go.
Was that his first time getting through it?
No.
Negative.
But they're ready for for their super pump because you had some new warrior kid podcast.
Come out.
Oh, yeah.
They're still about that.
Yeah.
Johnny Kim was on one.
Yes.
Because who doesn't what kids not.
What kids not saying I want to be.
Just a Navy seal a doctor and an astronaut.
Whatever.
Like every kid.
What else could he add on there?
I guess he needs to be a fireman.
Firefighter.
What else?
Oh, and a pro baseball player.
Right.
He's a knock those out.
Johnny Kim.
Yeah.
Come on, bro.
So we also have discipline to go to freedom field man.
Oh, Mike in the dragon.
So forget about Mike in the dragons.
There's a bunch of police officers right now around the country that are doing this kind of reading of Mike in the dragons.
I see a bunch of.
So I appreciate them all spread in the words.
Dispening for freedom field manual.
Extreme ownership in the dichotomy of leadership.
The leadership lessons from combat that I wrote in my brother, Dave Babin.
So check those out if you haven't got them.
Ashland front is our leadership consultancy.
What we do is solve problems through leadership.
Go to echelon front dot com.
Yes, we are alive.
Yes, we are engaged right now.
We're doing a little digitally.
How's that working out for you, Dave?
Awesome.
So good.
So legit.
It has been awesome.
Yeah.
It's it's a instead of us flying out and spending five hours in an airplane to get to talk to you for two hours or three hours.
No, we're there.
Two hours and three hours.
We're faced at face with you on the internet.
We're answering your questions.
And since we didn't waste five hours coming out there, we're going to do it again with you next week.
And the week after that.
So it's been a really cool transition.
And I'm sure you don't will go back when when the pandemic is over.
We'll go back and we'll do live stuff.
But man, if we aren't, we are completely.
We are having such such an incredible impact that we weren't able to achieve before because we were always logistically moving around.
And now it's like, no, we're right here.
I was, I was talking to a client today.
And I was doing an example of what it's like when the subordinates are blaming up the way we're going to be.
And so the woman that asked the question, you know,
and I was pointing right at the camera and I was right in the camera's face.
And I'm like yelling and it's just if, if that wasn't on a, if that wasn't on the internet.
You know, she would have been whatever.
Ten rows back and I would have been, you know, there would have been a disconnect.
There's a little bit of a disconnect.
No, I'm right, you know, and I'm just, you know, I'm just, you know, I'm just looking around.
And I go, this is what happens when you don't tell the team what's going on.
They start saying, you don't understand.
You don't give us the sport we need.
And I'm doing it right, the camera, it's, you know, it's funny.
I'm just having fun with it.
But that's like an effect you don't get.
You don't get that live.
So it's been very cool.
And the other thing that we've really kind of kind of just gone after right now.
And gotten after is EF online.
So EF online, which was, which was a very static platform of, hey,
you can come on here and go through these courses.
And, you know, we got great feedback on the courses.
But right now, since we're all, since we all have this opportunity to step up,
we're doing this live stuff on a, well, we're doing it three times a week right now.
We're stepping it up.
And what's great about it is once again, look, there's 200 people or 150 or 100 people
that are sitting on the internet during a call.
And people can ask a question right there on the spot.
Can say, hey, Jocco, I got this, you know, I got a subordinate that's doing this.
What do you think I should do?
Oh, okay, boom, here you go.
Oh, well, explain, give me some more detail on that.
So it's like on the podcast, you do Q&A.
We do Q&A. I read the question.
But that's just my interpretation of the question.
There's no feedback loop.
So when live, EF online, it's like, hey, explain what you mean.
Explain the relationship you have.
Give me some expanse.
Give me some more commentary on what it is you guys are trying to achieve.
So you get these detailed questions going on.
And by the way, you got a bunch of people there.
We're all listening to each other.
And everybody is going, oh, yeah, I had that happen.
Oh, here's another way to handle it.
So it's been phenomenal.
Go to EF online.com.
If you want to check that out, we got the leadership primer.
We got immediate action drills.
We got Q&A is going on.
So check that out.
The monster.
We are still going to go live at some point.
The one in Phoenix canceled, but September 16th and 17th in Dallas, Texas.
Or sorry, Phoenix Arizona, September 16th and Dallas, Texas, December 3rd and 4th.
Many of the people that were going to come to Orlando, which was canceled, just moved to either Phoenix or Dallas.
So those are going to sell out quicker than normal.
Everything we've ever done has sold out. So go to extremist.com for details.
If you want to come to one of those events.
And we have EF Overwatch and EF Legion.
So taking veterans that understand the principles we talk about and placing them either at an executive position through EF Overwatch or frontline leaders through EF Legion.com.
EF Overwatch.com.
Come and find the leaders you need to help your team win in those locations. And if you're a vet, go to EF.
If you're a vet, go to EF Legion and sign up.
Go to EF Legion. We got companies calling us right now that need to hire.
Look, there's a lot of companies that are laying people off.
There's also a lot of companies that business has gone through the roof that are hiring right now.
Go to EF Legion.com so we can get you out there and the world can know about you that are looking higher.
Good people.
And if you haven't had enough.
Of my droning overbearing voice or you haven't had enough of Echos.
The aggressive ramblings or Dave's hyper enthusiastic viewpoints.
Then you can get more of us on the inner webs.
On Twitter, on Instagram, and on Lying the Fison Book.
Dave is that David Arberg.
Be ERK E echo is adequate Charles and I am at Jockawilling.
And to everyone that's out there right now oversees in uniform protecting our great nation.
Thank you and to police and law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers,
correctional officers, border patrol, secret service.
Thank you for protecting us here at home.
And also to all the doctors and nurses and medical personnel that are on the front lines.
Every day right now risking disease to fight disease.
Thank you for stepping into the breach.
And to everyone else out there.
The path is hard.
And it is filled with obstacles and you may never get to the top.
In fact, you probably won't.
But keep striving.
Keep pushing. Keep maintaining unmedicated daily discipline in all things by going out there every single day.
And getting after it.
And until next time, this is Dave and Echo and Jockaw.
Out.